---
author:
- Alex Rea[^1]
- Daniel Kronovet[^2]
- Aron Fischer[^3]
- Jack du Rose[^4]
bibliography:
- ./src/bibliography/biblio.bib
title: |
  COLONY\
  Technical White Paper\
  Â --- commit
---

## Organizations, for the Internet {#organizations-for-the-internet .unnumbered}

The Colony Network is an Ethereum-based protocol for creating and
operating Internet Organizations. In a traditional organization, rules
are defined in policy documents and enforced by a management hierarchy;
in an Internet Organization, rules are defined in code and enforced by a
blockchain mining process.\
Automating business rule enforcement makes organizational models which
previously involved high coordination costs, such as Holacracy, more
feasible. More exciting still, this automation enables entirely new and
previously impossible organizational forms to come into being. By
reducing the trust needed for people to collaboratively manage shared
funds and enforce standards of conduct, it becomes possible to
coordinate the entirety of an organization's operations via market-style
interactions, rather than through the internal processes of a firm.\
An Internet Organization's operations are not *necessarily* analogous to
traditional company processes, such as project management, budgeting,
and decision-making, although they certainly *can* be, and indeed
Colony's own application (`https://colony.io/connect`) is modeled that
way. We anticipate the Colony protocol will be used to build economic
incentives and decision-making mechanisms for platforms whose content or
value proposition is created by users *without top down decision-making
of any kind*. Examples may include a photo-sharing app which
meritocratically divides revenue between users, a driver-run P2P
ridesharing service, crowdsourced claims handling in an insurance dApp,
or a merchants' guild in a virtual world.\
This is primarily a technical document describing the current design of
the Colony protocol, focusing on on-chain actions and affordances. In
many cases off-chain functionality, such as messaging or other forms of
signalling, will be essential for the proper functioning of the
organization. However, as that communication is not consensus-relevant,
it does not need to happen on-chain, so the specifics of how it might
occur are not treated here.\
Onward!

# Overview {#sec:overview}

## Preamble

This paper is split into sections corresponding to logically separate
components of the Colony Network. The Colony Network's features however,
are in some cases quite interdependent, making it difficult to explain a
feature without referencing another before it has been introduced. This
overview therefore provides a high level overview of Colony's
capabilities to contextualise the more technical expositions which
follow.

Section [1](#sec:overview){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:overview"}, this introduction, lays out the
organizational theory which inspires and guides the project. Section
[2](#sec:colony-structure){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:colony-structure"}, **Structure of a Colony**, details
the basic functionality of a colony, which can be thought of as an
organization's operating system. Much like a computer operating system
provides a secure interface for managing the system's underlying
resources, a colony provides a secure interface for managing an
organization's underlying resources. As with a computer operating
system, a colony can be extended with specific applications to implement
specific behaviors. We call these applications **Extensions**, and are
the subject of Section [3](#sec:extensions){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:extensions"}. Section
[4](#sec:colonynetwork){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:colonynetwork"} is concerned with the **Colony Network**
as a whole, covering the governance, operation, and token economics of
the Colony Network and the special Metacolony. Section
[5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"} is specifically concerned with the
**Reputation Mining** process, which powers Colony's reputation system.

Throughout this document various numerical parameters are specified.
These values will be subject to review as we gather evidence from the
field, and any parameter values proposed in this document should be seen
as good-faith suggestions, not final judgments. Similarly, nothing in
this document should be interpreted as a guarantee that any described
functionality will be either developed or deployed. The version of the
Colony Network that is live on Ethereum mainnet should be considered
complete as-is, and the reader should not assume, irrespective of the
content of this document, that any existing functionality will be
upgraded beyond its current state.

## Theory of the firm

Companies exist to coordinate the production of goods and services.
Transaction Cost Economics (TCE) theory, popularised by Ronald Coase's
'Theory of the Firm' [@The-Nature-of-the-Firm], postulates that
companies form, employ people, and invest in capital because there is a
threshold at which it is more efficient to control the factors of
production directly than to coordinate production via the market
mechanism, once transaction costs are accounted for. These transaction
costs come in three flavours:

-   **Search & information**: Costs associated with finding information
    to inform decisions, and discovering and evaluating suppliers.

-   **Bargaining**: These are costs associated with reaching an
    agreement with a supplier. Bargaining costs can be very low (e.g.
    buying a coffee), or very high (e.g. buying a company).

-   **Monitoring & enforcement**: The costs of ensuring adherence to the
    terms of an agreement (e.g. that widgets are manufactured on time
    and to the agreed quality). People often deviate from the agreed
    terms due to chance, negligence, or malice, and potentially high
    enforcement costs (e.g. legal fees) are required to resolve
    disputes.

TCE theory states that firms are more efficient than the market
mechanism at coordinating production due to *imperfect information* and
*bounded rationality*. Given perfect information, companies would not be
necessary, as market forces would provide the necessary mechanisms to
incentivise and coordinate production --- everyone would know the exact
value of their and other's contributions. As this is not the case in
traditional markets, these knowledge and trust barriers are overcome by
due diligence and contracts, and require a legal system to provide
recourse when things go wrong. These processes are expensive, and so
traditional firms often find that replacing free-market bargaining with
command-and-control hierarchy makes them more efficient and competitive.

As new technologies have improved the diversity and flow of information,
new organizations are emerging which are able to merge the efficient
decision-making of a market with the shared value-capture of a
traditional firm. Gig economy platforms (e.g. Uber, Airbnb), market
networks (e.g. eBay, Amazon Marketplace), and cryptocurrencies (e.g.
Bitcoin, Ethereum) have demonstrated that if *the product is
sufficiently well defined, and the supply sufficiently large, fungible,
or diverse*, then it is possible to dramatically reduce the transaction
costs of the market mechanism by making search and information discovery
easy, bargaining straightforward, and having policing and enforcement
provided essentially for free by the platform. This has enabled these
new platforms to be orders of magnitude more efficient than had they
attempted to coordinate equivalent supply within the hard boundaries of
a firm.

## Confidence and trust

The firm is able to coordinate complex production at scale by organising
labour into a management hierarchy. Seniority within the hierarchy
(ideally) represents the amount of confidence the company has in the
employee, and in the Platonic ideal of a firm, confidence is a pure
function of competence. The more confident the company is in their
employee, the higher their competence, and thus the greater their
responsibility, influence, and compensation.

Across the internet however, it's hard to have confidence in other
people. Up to now we've relied on platform operators to mediate
relationships between parties in online transactions (often via various
rating and reputation systems), and in some cases (such as payment
processing), to underwrite the risk of those transactions. On the
blockchain it's even harder, as all you know about a counterparty is
that they control a public key. It is difficult to imagine how a
traditional organization or hierarchy could exist in this pseudonymous,
adversarial environment. A blockchain has no geographical boundaries and
cannot differentiate between who or *what* controls public keys. As
Richard Gendal Brown put it in his twist on Peter Steiner's classic
meme: *'On the blockchain, nobody knows you're a fridge.'*

Internet Organizations must thus assume the lowest common denominator:
that every member is rationally self interested and focussed entirely on
maximising personal utility and profit, and given incentives
accordingly. This gets to the heart of Colony: a protocol seeking to
facilitate the same kind of meritocratic division of labour and
authority that the idealised model of the corporate hierarchy should,
except from the bottom up, and less prone to error. Decentralised,
self-organising companies, where decision-making power derives from a
fairly-assessed contribution of value.\
Work therefore, is where we start. A colony member is compensated for
the value they create for the colony, in the form of ETH, any
ERC20-compatible token, or *Reputation*, a non-fungible, time-decaying
measure of aggregate past contributions.

Active colonies are likely to have a variety of types of work ongoing at
any given time; in order to ease the management of work (and their
budgets), colonies can be divided into *Domains*. Domains are how you
structure your colony. You can think of them as teams, departments,
circles, or whatever makes sense in your context. These make it easy to
group related tasks together and separate them from other unrelated work
in other domains, and make it possible to incorporate
contextually-appropriate decision-making logic (in which one domain may
be controlled by an administrator, while another is controlled by
reputation-weighted voting).

When a colony member gets paid in the colony's internal token, they also
receive Reputation for the *Skills* they used, and in the *Domain* in
which the value was created. Reputation is used to quantify the
historical contributions of members to a colony, and to make sure they
are fairly rewarded. By earning Reputation in a *Skill* (e.g.
Javascript) and a *Domain* (e.g. BigCo Client Project), the recipient
earns proportional influence in decisions pertaining to those skills and
domains. Reputation is not transferable between accounts, and slowly
decays over time. This decay ensures that any reputation a member has is
as a result of recent behaviour deemed beneficial to the colony (and
thus a function of the judgment of the current membership). As the
calculations involved are too complex to carry out on the Ethereum
blockchain, updates to a member's reputation are calculated off-chain,
with an on-chain reporting mechanism secured by economics and game
theory (See Section [5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"}).

Many decisions within a colony can be made by informal consensus.
Members are expected to verify their colleagues conduct, but hopefully
will only rarely need to intervene. Intervention in this context means
'making a motion' and is the subject of Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}. Decision via vote is infrequent
within Colony because it is slow and carries a high coordination cost;
costs which are justified in the (hopefully rare) case of dispute
resolution. The dispute resolution system allows for many kinds of
decisions to be put to a contextually-relevant vote of some or all
members of the colony. Ballots are weighted meritocratically, according
to voters' contextually-relevant reputation.

Colonies may be voluntary, non-profit, or for profit. A
revenue-generating colony may elect to pay out a portion of its revenue
to its members. When the colony pays out rewards, the amount a member
receives is a function of their combined token *and* reputation
holdings; this ensures those who have contributed the most gain the
greatest benefit. Members maximise rewards by contributing to a colony
over its whole lifetime (thus maintaining high levels of reputation)
rather than sitting on early accumulations of tokens. The details of the
rewards payout process can be found in Section
[2.4](#sec:revenue){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:revenue"}.

We want people to use Colony for as many different workflows as
possible, even those that are not immediately apparent as being able to
leverage the Colony protocol. Section
[3.5](#sec:extensions-misc){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:extensions-misc"} provides a brief outline of some more
complex behaviours that we have envisaged as possible with the tools
described here.

# Structure of a Colony {#sec:colony-structure}

Colonies exist to enable collaboration between their members, and direct
collective efforts towards common goals. Facilitating effective division
of labour, management of incentives, and allocation of resources are
therefore some of the most important functions of the Colony protocol.

## Domains and permissions {#sec:domains}

[]{#sec:permissions label="sec:permissions"}

The essential structure of the colony revolves around domains and the
permissions that accounts may have in them. These two concepts jointly
define the structure and security of a colony and provide a flexible
framework for creating colonies of many kinds.

### Domains

Like any organization, without structure, a large colony would quickly
become difficult to navigate due to the sheer number of participants and
interactions taking place --- domains solve this problem. A domain is
like a folder in a shared filesystem, except instead of containing files
and folders, it can contain subdomains, funding, and expenditures. This
simple modularity enables great flexibility as to how an organisation
may be structured. Domains could be used to represent teams,
departments, projects, tribes, circles, and so forth. A toy example is
shown in in Figure [1](#fig:domainhierarchysample){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:domainhierarchysample"}.

<figure id="fig:domainhierarchysample">

<figcaption>Parts of a domain hierarchy for a colony developing a web
service.</figcaption>
</figure>

It is ultimately up to individual colonies to decide how they wish to
use domains---some might only use them for coarse categorisations,
whereas others may use them to precisely group only the most similar
expenditures together, or even multiple expenditures that other colonies
would consider a single expenditure. Some might use domains to represent
long-lived organizational departments, while others might use them more
ephemerally, to represent projects with start and end dates. We aim to
provide a general framework that colonies may use however they see fit,
and to be prescriptive only where necessary.

Among other things, this compartmentalisation of activity provides an
essential benefit to the colony as a whole by making reputation
*contextual*. When arbitration occurs, it occurs at a specific level in
the colony's domain hierarchy. This means that people with relevant
contextual knowledge can be included for their opinion, and that when
arbitration occurs, the whole colony is not required to participate in
the process.

### Permissions

Access control in a colony is organized around the concepts of
**permissions**. There are six different permissions (roughly in order
of influence): recovery, root, arbitration, architecture, funding, and
administration, each unlocking a bundle of semantically-related
functionality.

With the exception of the recovery and root permissions, all permissions
are domain-specific (much like permissions in a Unix file system are
directory-specific), with the rule that permissions held in a parent
domain are inherited in all child domains. Put another way, have a
permission in a domain gives you that permission in the entire *subtree*
rooted in that domain. To implement this inheritance, permissioned
functions require a *domain proof* of the following arguments:

-   `permissionDomainId` - The (parent) domain in which the account
    holds the permission.

-   `childSkillIndex` - The index of `domainId` in
    `permissionDomainId`'s `children` array.

-   `domainId` - The (child) domain in which the action is being taken.

These arguments can be evaluated on-chain in constant time to determine
whether the account is authorized to call the privileged function.

Permissions are held by Ethereum accounts. This means that permissions
may be given to human administrators, or assigned to contracts which
implement more complex behavior (such as voting mechanisms). These types
of contracts are known as **extensions** and are discussed in-depth in
Section [3](#sec:extensions){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:extensions"}. The use of extensions to flexibly 'plug-in'
various decision-making mechanisms is a key concept in the Colony
protocol.

It is worth noting that the list of accounts that have the permission in
question have the full permission; no additional restrictions exist at
the protocol level. In some cases, these are extremely powerful
capabilities (such as emitting arbitrary reputation penalties) and
require absolute confidence in whomever or whatever controls it. We
anticipate therefore that in many cases, extension contracts will be
used to offer varying degree of moderation to the underlying
permissions.

### Recovery {#recovery .unnumbered}

The recovery permission gives accounts access to the colony's emergency
'recovery' functionality, which allows for arbitrary state-changes to
the colony's data. Recovery mode is described in more detail in Section
[\[sec:escape-hatches\]](#sec:escape-hatches){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:escape-hatches"}.

### Root {#root .unnumbered}

The root permission gives accounts access to high-level administrative
functions in the colony, such as setting colony-wide parameters,
upgrading the colony, and minting new internal tokens. This permission
also gives accounts the ability to assign permissions throughout the
colony (including in the root domain).

### Arbitration {#arbitration .unnumbered}

The arbitration permission gives accounts the ability to make
domain-specific state changes, meant as a means of resolving motions.
This permission also enables accounts to emit reputation penalties (but
not reputation increases).

### Architecture {#architecture .unnumbered}

The architecture permission gives accounts the ability to create new
domains in a colony, as well as assign permissions in those new domains.
Unlike root, accounts with this permission cannot edit permissions in
the domain in which they hold the permission, only in subdomains.

### Funding {#funding .unnumbered}

The funding permission gives accounts the ability to move tokens between
funding pots. In practice, this means that this permission is
responsible for allocating money amongst domains and for funding
expenditures. Financial management in a colony is described in more
detail in Section [\[sec:finance\]](#sec:finance){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:finance"}.

### Administration {#administration .unnumbered}

The administration permission gives accounts the ability to create and
manage (but not fund) expenditures, the basic incentive unit in a
colony, described in Section
[2.2](#sec:expenditures){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:expenditures"}.\
Broadly, permissions are designed as a 'separation of powers': different
permissions must work in concert to carry out the functioning of a
colony. For example, administration can create an expenditure, but only
funding can actually provide the resources, while arbitration resolves
motions as they arise. Complex extensions may require multiple
permissions in order to function properly (such as 'tasks', which
requires both arbitration and administration).

The intention is that, since permissions are grouped into semantic
bundles of functionality, it will be possible to develop *specialized*
mechanisms for mediating access to the underlying functionality (i.e.
specialized funding mechanisms and specialized dispute-resolution
mechanisms, as opposed to a general-purpose 'voting' mechanism meant to
handle all possible decisions).

Colony's long-term vision is of *trustless organizations*; organizations
in which members can safely collaborate and manage shared resources,
without needing to know or trust each other. Early colonies may find
that a larger emphasis on human moderators to be useful, while more
mature colonies may find reasons to devolve increasingly more
decision-making to extensions implementing trustless functionality. We
will refer to colonies which make substantial use of these extensions as
*trustless colonies*.

## Funding and expenditures {#sec:expenditures}

[]{#sec:finance label="sec:finance"}

All tokens and currencies are administered by the colony contract; it is
responsible for all the bookkeeping and allocations. The former are
managed via funding pots, the latter via expenditures.

### Funding pots

Each domain and each expenditure in a colony has an associated *funding
pot*. A funding pot can be thought of as a wallet specific to a
particular domain or expenditure, and are used to move funds around
*within* a colony. To each funding pot, the colony contract may
associate any number of Ether or ERC20-compatible tokens it holds.
Depending on context, the funds in a funding pot may be referred to as
the payout, bounty, budget, salary or working capital. In addition to
the funding pots, there is a special *rewards pot* which accumulates
tokens to be distributed to members as *rewards* (see Section
[2.4](#sec:revenue){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:revenue"}).

Only accounts holding the **funding** permission may move tokens; the
rule is that they may move tokens between any two pots in the subtree
rooted in the domain in which they hold the permission. It is the
expectation that this permission will in many cases be given to an
*extension contract* implementing a specialized decision-making
mechanism, such as the *funding queue* described in Section
[3.2](#sec:funding-queues){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:funding-queues"}.

### Expenditures

The basic payment primitive of a colony is the 'expenditure'.
Expenditures are used to transfer funds out of a colony to any Ethereum
account. An expenditure has several properties:

-   An `owner` (the account address which created the expenditure).

-   A `status` (active, cancelled, or finalized).

-   One or more `recipient`s.

-   `payouts` for each recipient, denominated in one or more tokens.

-   Optionally, a per-recipient `skill`.

-   Optionally, a per-recipient `payoutModifier`.

-   Optionally, a per-recipient `claimDelay`.

The owner is responsible for setting the properties of the expenditure.
The recipients are simply Ethereum accounts. While it is anticipated
that recipients will be individuals, there is nothing to prevent these
accounts being contracts under the control of multiple people.[^5]

Once the expenditure is finalized, all properties become locked (but
subject to arbitration) and payouts can be claimed (and reputation
awarded). Prior to finalization, the owner has the ability to cancel the
expenditure entirely. Any funds that have already been assigned to the
expenditure can be reassigned to the domain that the expenditure was
created in.

Defining the payouts for each recipient, of course, does not provide the
funds --- this must be done through the funding mechanisms in Colony.
Payouts do not have to all be in the same token, and an expenditure's
payouts can be made up of an arbitrary number of tokens.

The expenditure is meant to be an abstract primitive which can support
many types of workflows, and so contains optional attributes to support
more complex behavior (see Section
[3](#sec:extensions){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:extensions"}).
For instance, the `payoutModifier` and `claimDelay` can be used to
implement a rating and review system, where good or bad reviews lead to
an across-the-board reputation increase (or payout decrease) for a
recipient, while the `claimDelay` is set to allow for any relevant
motions to be decided before funds can exit the colony.\
Once the tokens have been received by an account, they are under the
control of the recipient --- there is no way to reclaim the funds. The
funds have to cross the 'Cryptographic Rubicon' somewhere in the system
(by the nature of the blockchain), and it makes sense to do so here.[^6]

## Internal tokens {#sec:colony-tokens}

Every colony has its own ERC20-compatible 'internal token'. These are
the tokens that, when earned as an expenditure payout, also generate
reputation for the receiver (and thus distribute control within the
colony). What these tokens represent apart from this is up to the colony
to decide. For example, they may have financial value, or they may be
purely symbolic; some possible scenarios are outlined in this section.

In addition, colonies may 'bring their own token' and designate an
existing ERC20-compatible token as reputation-bearing. While this may be
advantageous in some contexts, it's worth noting that this weakens the
incentive alignment underpinning the game theoretic security of
trustless colonies, in that the value of the token is divorced from the
performance of the colony. Note that the internal token cannot be
changed once a colony has been created, so *choose wisely*.

In cases where a colony creates a new token, that colony is in control
of the supply of the token. Specifically, **root** permission holders
can mint tokens at-will. In some cases, this may look like a founder
managing the token supply unilaterally, while in other cases colonies
may manage the minting process via an extension contract (see Section
[3.5.1](#sec:colony-token-management){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:colony-token-management"} for an example).

A common question is why only internal tokens (as opposed to all tokens)
are reputation-bearing. The reason for having a single token be
reputation-bearing is that it avoids tricky exchange-rate problems, such
as incentives to receive more of a less valuable token to earn more
reputation.

### Token use-cases

Ultimately, internal tokens are used to distribute reputation, and thus
both ownership and decision-making power. Since users with more
reputation can both exercise more influence over the activity of the
colony, as well as claim a greater share of the rewards, reputation
functions to align incentives among the members of colony. Here we give
a few examples of different use-cases for internal tokens, demonstrating
the variety of schemes colonies may adopt for distributing ownership and
influence alongside cash compensation.

### Tokens as early rewards {#tokens-as-early-rewards .unnumbered}

One of the chief benefits of a colony having its own token is that it
can offer rewards for work before it has any revenue or external funding
to draw on. A new colony may offer token payouts for expenditures with
the hope that the reputation earned by these token payments (and the
future revenue earned by the colony) will eventually lead to financial
rewards. By allowing 'spending' before fund-raising, the financial
burden during the start-up phase of a new colony is eased. Once a colony
is profitable, payment in tokens may be the exception rather than the
norm.

### Tokens representing hours worked {#tokens-representing-hours-worked .unnumbered}

We could imagine a colony in which all expenditures are paid in Ether,
but include a number of the colony's own tokens as well, equal to the
expected number of hours worked. The members of the colony would be
responsible for assigning 'correct' token and Ether payouts to
expenditures. This extra responsibility would also ensure users doing
the same amount of work received the same reputation gain, rather than
the reputation gain being dependent on the rates they charged.

### Tokens as performance-based bonuses {#tokens-as-performance-based-bonuses .unnumbered}

Alternatively, we could imagine a colony which seeks to balance
predictable compensation (i.e. salaries) with performance-based
incentives. Such a colony could pay out salaries in a token such as
Ether or DAI, and reserve their internal token for performance-based
bonuses (i.e. for hitting quarterly OKRs). Such an approach makes
reputation (and decision-making power) a function of achievement,
without making members of the colony feel as though their ability to pay
rent depends on their ability to hit quarterly goals.

### Colony's `Token` contract

Colony has developed a customized `Token` contract, with some additional
functionality:

-   `mint` --- lets the token contract owner introduce new tokens into
    circulation.

-   `burn` --- lets anyone permanently remove tokens from circulation.

In addition, Colony's `Token` contract introduces the idea of 'locking'
--- tokens being non-transferrable until a one-way boolean flag is
flipped. This is useful for colonies which want more control over how
and when their tokens can be liquidated and exchanged.

This contract underlies the Colony Network TokenÂ (see Section
[4.2](#sec:clny){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:clny"}) and is the
default token contract for new colonies, although colonies are free to
choose any ERC20-compatible token.

## Revenue and rewards {#sec:revenue}

A colony may sell goods and services in exchange for Ether or any
ERC20-compatible tokens, and this revenue may be sent to the colony's
address. Whenever a colony receives such payments, we say that the
colony has earned *revenue*. Revenue is distinct from a colony's working
capital: the latter is the sum of all tokens held by the colony in
various domains (see Section
[\[sec:finance\]](#sec:finance){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:finance"}), while the former is implicitly defined as the
colony's token holdings not yet accounted for in any of the existing
pots.

There is an expectation that some fraction of any Ether or other tokens
received by the colony are paid out to their members. 'Members', in this
context, means accounts holding both tokens and reputation in the
colony. Whenever a colony distributes a portion of revenue to its
members, we say that the colony is paying out *rewards*.

### Processing revenue

Revenue accumulates as the colony receives transfers of tokens. In order
to be processed, any user can make a special `claimColonyFunds`
transaction, indicating for which token they wish to process accumulated
revenue.

The transaction then calculates the amount of token-denominated revenue
that has accumulated since the last such transaction, and transfers some
proportion to the colony's rewards pot. The remainder is then made
available to the colony as working capital. The percentage split is
configurable by the **root** permission via the `setRewardInverse`
function.

### Claiming rewards from the rewards pot {#sec:claimrewards}

Rewards accumulate in the rewards pot. To trigger a payout to users
(i.e. to make rewards claimable) a **root** user makes a special
`startNextRewardPayout` transaction (no more than once every 60Â days),
initiating a process by which all members may claim a payout based on
the reward pot's holdings.

This reward payout transaction includes the specific currency that
should be paid (reward payouts for each token are handled separately).
Once the process begins, all users' tokens are locked until they claim
their payout. Locking is necessary because the token balance of each
account factors into the rewards formula of equation
[\[eq:reward-claim\]](#eq:reward-claim){reference-type="eqref"
reference="eq:reward-claim"}. Locking is done by incrementing the
token's `totalLockCount`.

Our `TokenLocking` contract contains a locking mechanism ensuring that a
user cannot move tokens while they have (token-weighted) votes to
reveal; we use the same mechanism here to ensure that a user cannot move
tokens after a payout is approved by the members of the colony but
before the user has claimed their rewards. The colony has a counter for
each user that is incremented whenever they claim a payout; they can
also waive their claim to a payout that will increment this counter.\
**Rewards are only available to accounts that hold both tokens and
reputation**, and the amount claimable by each account depends on *both*
token balance and reputation (see equation
[\[eq:reward-claim\]](#eq:reward-claim){reference-type="eqref"
reference="eq:reward-claim"} below). Therefore we need to have a similar
behaviour to 'lock' the reputation of the users for the payout. When a
payout is activated, the current state of the reputation tree is
recorded in the payout itself. Users are paid out according to their
reputation in this state, rather than the most recent state, to ensure
all users get an appropriate payout and to avoid exploiting the system
(which might otherwise be possible via e.g. delaying reward collection
until after completing an expenditure, increasing their reputation).

### The rewards formula

The amount that each user ($u_i$) of a colony ($\mathcal{C}$) is
entitled to claim ($p_i$) is a function of their colony token holdings
($t_i$) and their total reputation in the colony ($r_i$):

$$\label{eq:reward-claim}
 p_i = \left(\frac{t_i r_i}{T \times R}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}} \qquad \textnormal{where} \quad T = \sum\limits_{u_j\in \mathcal{C}} t_j \quad\textnormal{and}\quad R = \sum\limits_{u_j\in \mathcal{C}} r_j.$$

This is a (normalised) geometric average of the user's token holdings
and reputation. We note that this is very unlikely to payout all the
tokens set aside for a payout --- the only way it would do so is if
everyone had the same proportion of reputation in the colony as they did
proportion of tokens in the colony. However, the geometric average is
the natural way to fairly capture the influence of two variables with
different ranges, and ensures that large token holders must earn large
amounts of reputation to get the most from the payouts. The total
reputation and user reputation in the colony are all provable on-chain
at claim time via a Merkle proof that the `ReputationRootHash` (Section
[5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"}) contains some values claimed by the
user; the user's balance of colony tokens and the total number of tokens
issued is trivial to lookup.

After some sufficiently long period of time (60Â days), all unclaimed
tokens can be reclaimed on behalf of the colony by a user, and the
payout closed. Any users that have not claimed their payout by that
point will still have their tokens locked, and they will remain locked
until they issue a transaction waiving their claim to the payout
(indeed, they already passively did this by not claiming it in a timely
fashion). Unclaimed tokens are returned to the rewards pot and become
part of the next reward cycle.

## The reputation system {#sec:reputation}

Reputation is a number associated with each user which attempts to
capture the value of that user's contributions to the colony over time.
Reputation is used to weight a user's influence in decisions related to
the expertise they have demonstrated, and to determine amounts owed to a
colony's members when rewards are disbursed. Because reputation is
awarded to users by either direct or indirect peer assessment of their
actions, we argue that influence and rewards can be seen as being
(roughly) distributed by merit. Colony's aim is that the reputation
system will enable an emergent and dynamic decision-making hierarchy in
which all of the right people are in the right places.

Colony aims to be broadly meritocratic. Consequently, the majority of
decisions in a trustless colony are weighted by the relevant reputation.
Unlike tokens, reputation cannot be transferred between accounts, as it
represents an appraisal of the account's activities by their peers.
Reputation must therefore be earned by direct action within the colony.
Reputation that is earned will eventually be lost through inactivity,
error, or misbehaviour; a description of how reputation is gained and
lost is given in Section
[2.5.2](#sec:earning-losing-rep){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:earning-losing-rep"}.

### Types of reputation

### Reputation by domain {#sec:rep-by-domain .unnumbered}

The hierarchical domain structure of a colony was described in Section
[2.1](#sec:domains){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:domains"}.
Reputation is earned in this hierarchy, and a user has a reputation in
all domains that exist --- even if that reputation is zero. When a user
earns or loses reputation in a domain, the reputation in all parent
domains changes by the same amount. In the case of a user losing
reputation, they also lose reputation in all child domains, but in this
case the child domains lose the same *fraction* of reputation that was
lost in the original domain. If a reputation update would result in a
user's reputation being less than zero, their reputation is set to zero
instead.\

<figure id="fig:reputationhierarchysample">

<figcaption>Reputation flowing up a domain hierarchy.</figcaption>
</figure>

An example makes this clearer. Suppose a colony has a 'development'
domain which contains a 'backend' domain and a 'frontend' domain, as in
Figure [2](#fig:reputationhierarchysample){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:reputationhierarchysample"}. Any time a member of the
colony earns reputation for work completed in the backend domain, it
will increase their backend reputation, their development reputation and
their reputation in the all-encompassing root domain of the colony.
Reputation earned in the development domain will only increase the
development and root domain reputation scores of the user.

Later, the user behaves badly in the 'development' domain, and they lose
100 reputation out of the 2000 they have in that domain. They also lose
100 reputation in the parent domains, and 5%
$\left(\frac{100}{2000}\right)$ of their reputation in each of the child
domains of the 'development' domain (which in this example, includes
both frontend and backend domains).

### Reputation by skill {#sec:rep-by-skill .unnumbered}

We anticipate domains to mostly be used as an organisational hierarchy
within a colony. However, this would not necessarily capture the *type*
of work that a user completed to earn their reputation. If the domain
were a project, with expenditures involving both design and development
work, reputation earned by completing expenditures related to these
skills would not be distinguishable. To have a more granular account of
the work a user completes to earn their reputation, a skill cloud is
also maintained.

This global cloud of skill tags is available to all colonies, and is
curated and maintained by the Metacolony. When an expenditure is
created, as well as being placed in a particular domain in the colony,
may also be tagged with one or more skills from the skills cloud. When
the recipient earns reputation by claiming the payout, they will earn
reputation in all skills the expenditure was tagged with, with the
reputation divided uniformly amongst the skills. This is in addition to
the reputation earned in the relevant domains.

Even though the skills cloud is universal, specific skills reputation is
unique to each colony. Earning reputation in a skill in one colony has
no effect on the user's reputation in that skill in any other colonies.

### Reputation by colony {#sec:rep-by-colony .unnumbered}

A user's total reputation in a colony is their reputation in the root
domain. This is the reputation they will be voting with in any decisions
that require input from everyone in a trustless colony (i.e. modifying
colony-wide parameters). Reputation in a colony has no effect outside
the colony. In particular, reputations held in one colony have no
bearing on reputations held by the same account in another colony.

### Earning and losing reputation {#sec:earning-losing-rep}

There are three ways to receive reputation in a colony.[^7] The first
(and by far the most common) is through receiving a payout via an
expenditure. The second is through the arbitration process. The third is
upon the creation of a colony and the associated bootstrapping process.

Reputation losses broadly occur as the result of arbitration, and
extension contracts (see Section
[3](#sec:extensions){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:extensions"})
makes it possible to implement mechanisms which involve reputation
penalties (such as tasks and disputes). In addition, all reputation
earned by users is subject to a continual decay over time.

The rest of this section outlines each of these mechanisms, with
references to the more detailed descriptions given elsewhere where
appropriate.

### Reputation change via expenditures {#reputation-change-via-expenditures .unnumbered}

Whenever an expenditure recipient receives a payout denominated in the
colony's internal token, the recipient also receives some amount of
reputation, scaled by that recipient's `payoutScalar`. A value of 1
gives reputation equivalent to the token payout, but a multiple of up to
2x is possible. The reputation is earned in the domain (and all parent
domains) of the expenditure, and divided equally among any skills
associated with that recipient.

### Reputation change as a result of arbitration {#sec:earning-rep-in-disputes .unnumbered}

Arbitration permission holders have the ability to emit arbitrary
reputation penalties (but not increases) in both domains and skills.
While this might seem to be a significant power available to arbitration
permission holders, recall that this permission will in many cases be
assigned to extension contracts, which will mediate this ability via
various mechanisms, such as the motions system (see Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}).

### Bootstrapping reputation {#sec:bootstrapping-rep .unnumbered}

Since a trustless colony's decision making procedure rests on reputation
weighted voting, we are presented with a bootstrapping problem for new
colonies. When a trustless colony is new, no-one has yet completed any
work in it and so nobody will have earned any reputation. Consequently,
no motions can be made and no disputes can be resolved as no-one is able
to vote. Then, once the first expenditure is paid out, that user has a
dictatorship over decisions in the same domains or skills until another
user earns similar types of reputation.

To prevent this, when a colony is created, the creator can choose
accounts to have initial reputation assigned to them in the root domain
to allow the colony to bootstrap itself. The reputation assigned to each
user will be equal to the number of tokens received, i.e. if a member
receives ten tokens, they also receive ten reputation in the root
domain. Given that reputation decays over time, this initial
bootstrapping will not have an impact on the long-term operation of the
colony. This is the only time that reputation can be created without an
associated expenditure being paid out. Users receiving reputation are
presumably the colony founder and their colleagues, and this starting
reputation should be seen as a representation of the existing trust
which exists within the team.

We note that the same is not required when a new domain is created in a
colony. We do not wish to allow the creation of new reputation here, as
this would devalue reputation already earned elsewhere in the colony.
This bootstrapping issue is resolved by instead using reputation within
the parent domain, when a child domain contains less than 10% of the
reputation of its parent domain. A domain below this threshold cannot
have domains created under it.

### Reputation decay {#reputation-decay .unnumbered}

All reputation decays over time. Every 90Â days,[^8] a user's reputation
in every domain or skill decays by a factor of 2. This decay occurs
every 1Â hour, rather than being a step change every 90Â days to ensure
there are minimal incentives to earn reputation at any particular time.
This frequent, network-wide update is the primary reason for the
existence of the reputation mining protocol, which allows this
near-continuous decay to be calculated off-chain without gas limits, and
then realised on-chain.

The decay serves multiple purposes. It ensures that reputation scores
represent *recent* contributions to a colony incentivising members to
continually contribute to the colony. It further ensures that wild
appreciations in token value (and the corresponding decrease in tokens
paid per expenditure) do not permanently distort the distribution of
reputation but instead serves to smooth out the effects of such
fluctuations over time.\
One might wonder why we have chosen to *decay* reputation, rather than
pursue a strategy of reputation *dilution* via inflation. In one sense,
they are equivalent: decaying reputation that is earned at a constant
rate is the same as earning reputation at increasingly inflated
valuations. Mathematically, however, decay is the cleaner approach, and
so the use-case for inflation is that it is more feasibly calculated
on-chain. In the case of Colony, reputation cannot be calculated on
chain, since reputation updates effect an unbounded number of reputation
nodes (due to the unbounded size of the domain tree). Since reputation
cannot be calculated on chain, we choose to decay reputation in our
off-chain reputation mining process.

### On-chain representation of skills and domains {#subsec:on-chain-representation-of-skills}

In the context of reputation, domains and skills are the same, differing
only in that domains are colony-specific categorisation and skills are
universal categorisation. In this subsection, each instance of 'skill'
should be taken to mean 'skill or domain'.

Each skill that reputation can be earned in is assigned a `skillId` that
is unique across the whole network. When a skill is created, additional
properties are recorded and initialised.

$$\texttt{skillId} \rightarrow
  \begin{cases}
    \texttt{nParents} &	\textnormal{total number of parent skills.}\\
    \texttt{nChildren} &	\textnormal{total number of child skills.}\\
    \texttt{parents}\left[\cdots\right] &	\parbox[t]{.6\linewidth}{\textnormal{array of \texttt{skillId}s of a \textit{logarithmic subset} of parent skills, where \texttt{parents[i]} gives the $2^i$-th parent.}}\\
    \texttt{children}\left[\cdots\right] &	\textnormal{array of \texttt{skillId}s of \textit{all} child skills.}\\
    \texttt{globalSkill} &	\textnormal{whether the skill is a skill or domain.}\\
    \texttt{deprecated} &	\textnormal{whether the skill has been deprecated.}
  \end{cases}$$

Upon creation, `nChildren` is 0 and `children[]` is empty. These two
attributes in all parents are updated with the `skillId` of the new
child skill on creation.[^9]

Storing these pieces of data on-chain is required, as they are used by
the reputation mining protocol (see Section
[5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"}) and the procedures for appealing
motions (see Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}). They are stored under the
control of the `ColonyNetwork` contract.

### Reputation update log {#subsec:reputation-update-log}

Whenever an event that causes one or more users to have their reputation
updated in a colony occurs, a corresponding entry is recorded in a log
in the `ColonyNetwork` contract. Each entry in the log contains:

-   The user experiencing the reputation loss or gain.

-   The amount of reputation to be lost or gained.

-   The `skillId` of the reputation to be lost or gained.

-   The colony the update has occurred in.

-   How many reputation entries will need to be updated (including
    parent, child and colony-wide total reputations). This is the
    motivation for storing `nParents` and `nChildren` for each skill and
    domain.

-   How many total updates to reputations have occurred before this one
    in this cycle, including decays and updates to parents and children.

If the reputation update is the result of a dispute being resolved (as
outlined in Section
[\[sec:earning-rep-in-disputes\]](#sec:earning-rep-in-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:earning-rep-in-disputes"}), then instead of these first
three properties, there is a reference to the dispute-specific record of
stakes in the relevant colony. For the structure of this log, and an
explanation of the way that it allows individual updates to be extracted
in constant gas, see Appendix
[7.1](#appendix:rep-transfer){reference-type="ref"
reference="appendix:rep-transfer"}.

This log exists to define an ordering of all reputation updates in a
reputation update cycle that is accessible on-chain. In the event of a
dispute during the reputation mining protocol (described in Section
[5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"}), the `ColonyNetwork` contract can use
this record to establish whether an update has been included correctly.

## Managing stakes {#sec:stakes}

Staking is a key concept in trustless systems, as a way to ensure that
participants have 'skin in the game' and can be incentivized towards
good behavior. As Colony wishes to enable an ecosystem of extensions
implementing various cryptoeconomic mechanisms (see Section
[3](#sec:extensions){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:extensions"}),
a shared system for managing stakes improves usability and security by
saving users from needing to send and retrieve tokens to and from many
different contracts. In colonies, all stakes are denominated in that
colony's internal token.

### Storing Tokens

All stakes are stored in the network-wide `TokenLocking` contract. A
singleton contract has the advantage that in scenarios where a user is a
member of multiple colonies sharing the same internal token, a single
deposit suffices for all colonies.

Any slashing of stakes occurs as a result of a function call coming from
the *colony* and is a result of colony-specific arbitration logic.

### Approvals and Obligations

Stakes are managed via a sequence of *approvals* and *obligations*.
Users *approve* an account to then *obligate* them up to the maximum
amount of their approval. If an obligation is made in excess of the
deposits held in the `TokenLocking` contract, the transaction will fail.
Once an obligation is made, a user cannot withdraw tokens if the
withdrawal would result in a balance less than their obligations. At any
time, the approved extension can *deobligate* the user, freeing the
tokens for withdrawal (see Figure
[3](#fig:stake-deobligate){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:stake-deobligate"}). In practice, we expect that the same
underlying deposit will be obligated and deobligated repeatedly without
the user needing to move any additional tokens.

<figure id="fig:stake-deobligate">

<figcaption>Example stake lifecycle with deobligation</figcaption>
</figure>

While an obligation is active, any **arbitration** permission holder can
*slash* the stake up to the amount of the obligation (see Figure
[4](#fig:stake-slash){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:stake-slash"}). We reiterate that this is a powerful
ability and in most cases should be mediated by an appropriate extension
(such as motions, described in Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}).

<figure id="fig:stake-slash">

<figcaption>Example stake lifecycle with slashing</figcaption>
</figure>

For reasons of security, approvals are keyed by *domain*, as well as by
address of approvee (i.e. `approve(approvee, domain, amount)`).
Otherwise, a malicious actor could use *any* arbitration permission
holder in the colony to slash a stake, rather than arbitration
permission holders in the intended domain inheritance path. However,
because `TokenLocking` does not know about the domain structure of
specific colonies, the obligations in `TokenLocking` are aggregates of
all colony- and domain-specific obligations.

Overall, this design allows arbitration to be generalized and separated
from the implementation of any particular extension: extensions obligate
a stake (and define the period of obligation), while during that period
separate arbitration processes can slash that stake.

## Upgradability and security {#subsec:upgradability}

[]{#sec:escape-hatches label="sec:escape-hatches"}

### Upgradability

We foresee the Colony Network being continuously developed. Providing an
upgrade path is important to allow people to use Colony without
preventing themselves from using new features as they are added to the
network.

We intend to allow colonies and tokens to be upgraded by using the
pattern made available under the name EtherRouter [@EtherRouter]. This
implementation uses two contracts in addition to the contract(s)
providing the functionality implemented. The first additional contract
is the `EtherRouter` contract, which passes on transactions --- via
`delegatecall` --- to the contract that implements that function. The
second additional contract is the `Resolver` contract, where the
accounts of the contracts that implement the desired behaviour are
defined. Whenever a transaction is received by the `EtherRouter`
contract, it looks up the contract that implements that function (if
any) in the `Resolver`, and then `delegatecall`s that contract.

In order to upgrade, new contracts are deployed with new functionality,
and then contracts that the `Resolver` contract points to must be
changed to point to these new contracts. In order to avoid a situation
where the contract partially implements both old and new functionality,
a new instance of `Resolver` will be deployed for each upgrade, and then
a single transaction can point `EtherRouter` at the new `Resolver`. From
the perspective of the colony, an upgrade is then simply swapping out
one address (the `Resolver`) for another.

The choice of upgrading the underlying Colony contract will always fall
to the colony, and never the Colony Network. While the network is in
control of what upgrades are available, they are not able to force any
colony to upgrade the underlying contracts. The colony itself must
decide that it wants to upgrade to a new version.

### Security

While we aspire to bug-free contracts, bugs are inevitable, and so the
adoption of a 'defensive programming' mentality will limit the impact of
any vulnerabilities that may be discovered in the deployed contracts.

The ultimate fallback is known as 'recovery mode'. In this state,
whitelisted accounts (those with the **recovery** permission) are able
to access special functions that allow the state of the contract to be
directly edited --- in practise, this will correspond to access to the
functions to allow setting of variables, as well as being able to
upgrade the contract. With the agreement of multiple whitelisted
accounts, the contract will then be able to be taken out of recovery
mode once the contract has been returned to a safe state. Removal from
recovery mode requires the approval of multiple whitelisted accounts.
This ensures that a single whitelisted account cannot, in a single
transaction, enter recovery mode, make a malicious edit, and then exit
recovery mode before the other parties on the whitelist have had a
chance to react.

It is conceivable that colonies will be able to deactivate the recovery
mode feature in the future, once the network and contracts have matured
sufficiently.\
In general, the contract may enter recovery mode due to:

-   A transaction from a whitelisted account signalling that the
    contract should enter recovery mode.

-   Something that should always be true of the colony not being true
    --- for example, after an expenditure payout checking that the
    amount of funds promised to expenditures and not yet paid out is
    still less than the balance of the colony. If not, then abort the
    transaction and put the contract into recovery mode.

-   A qualitative trigger suggesting something may be amiss --- perhaps
    too many tokens have been paid out in a short amount of time.

Any approvals from whitelisted accounts to leave recovery mode must be
reset whenever a variable is edited. A whitelisted account agreeing to
leave recovery mode records the timestamp at which the agreement
occurred, and any change of variables also update a timestamp indicating
the last edit. When attempting to leave recovery mode, only agreements
made after the last edit are counted towards meeting the threshold.

The first **recovery** permission holder is set at colony creation and
is the creator of the colony. Additional **recovery** permission holders
can be added by the **root** permission.

## Arbitrary transactions {#sec:arbitrary-transaction}

Of course, it is possible that a colony will want to engage in some
behaviour that we haven't foreseen, that could be implemented in a
contract outside the control of the Colony Network (such as changing a
parameter in a contract when the colony as a whole is responsible for
governing that contract). To that end, we wish to have a mechanism by
which a colony can create an arbitrary transaction on the blockchain to
interact with contracts and tokens without requiring the network to
explicitly support them. As they are powerful, such transactions should
be rare occurrences requiring **root** authorization.

# Extending Functionality {#sec:extensions}

The vision of Colony is the creation of decentralized, trustless
organizations, in which decisions are driven by reputation, not a subset
of moderators. Yet, at the level of the core Colony contracts, access is
mediated by permissions, not reputation.

The decision to make 'permissions' Colony's core access-control logic is
doubly motivated. First, it makes it possible to launch a Colony which
is admin-controlled (appropriate for small teams with substantial
existing trust) and to transition to a more decentralized, trustless
style of operating as the organization matures. Second, the
permissions-based approach makes it possible to experiment with a wide
variety of mechanisms without needing to continually deploy new Colony
contracts. Much like the distinction between **kernel space** and **user
space** in the design of operating systems, permissions can be thought
of as providing the **system calls** needed to give end-user
applications (extensions) the ability to securely manipulate the
underlying resources of the system. Just as this model has proven very
successful in enabling a wide variety of software applications to safely
share computing resources, so do we think that the colony-and-extensions
model will be successful here.

This section will discuss in-depth how a variety of key trustless
functionality can be implemented and made available for colonies to use,
and to demonstrate the flexibility enabled by the permissions system.

## Tasks {#sec:tasks}

Unlike an expenditure, which represents an abstract transfer of
resources, the 'task' represents a more concrete exchange of labor for
value, and a unit of work requiring no further subdivision or
delegation. A task has three roles associated with it:

-   `Manager` --- responsible for defining and coordinating the delivery
    of the task.

-   `Worker` --- responsible for executing the task.

-   `Evaluator` --- responsible for assessing whether the work has been
    completed satisfactorily.

The manager (initially the creator of the task) is responsible for
selecting the evaluator and worker and setting additional metadata for
the task:

-   A `dueDate`.

-   `payout`s for each of the manager, worker and evaluator.

-   A `specificationHash`: the address of a specification on IPFS, used
    by the worker to guide the work, and the evaluator for assessing the
    satisfactory completion of the task.

In order to create a task, the manager must have the **administration**
permission. Future variations of the 'tasks' extension may instead
impose minimum reputation requirements and/or staking, making task
creation trustless.

Defining what the payouts for each role should be, of course, does not
provide the funds --- this must be done through the funding mechanisms
in Colony (see Section
[\[sec:finance\]](#sec:finance){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:finance"}). Payouts do not have to all be in the same
currency, and a task's payout can be made up of an arbitrary number of
currencies. If a payout for the task is denominated in the colony's
token, the recipient will also earn reputation when the task is
completed as long as their work was well received.

If no worker has been assigned to a task, the manager has the ability to
cancel the task entirely. Any funds that have already been assigned to
the task via funding proposals may be reassigned to the domain of the
task.

Assigning either the worker or the evaluator requires the mutual
agreement of the manager and the assignee. Once assigned, changes which
involve either the worker or evaluator (such as changing the task brief
or due date, cancelling the task, or changing assignments or payouts)
require mutual consent (i.e. multisig approval), or can be triggered via
the motions process.

After the task has been assigned, the worker has until the due date to
make a 'final submission', which includes some evidence that the work
has been completed.

Once the due date has passed or the worker has made their submission,
the evaluator may rate the work. Regardless of whether the rating is
positive or not, the task enters a state in which **motions** to the
change final state of the task can be raised and **disputes** can be
initiated (see Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}). Once the motions period has
elapsed, payouts are eligible to be claimed.\
As mentioned, the performance of the user who has completed the work is
determined after the work is submitted. At this point, the evaluator
grades[^10] the work submitted by the worker, and the worker rates the
manager's ability to coordinate delivery of the task, on a scale of one
to three points. In the case of the evaluator, a rating of one point
counts as them rejecting the work and a rating of two or three points
counts as accepting the work. The rating received determines the
reputation change the user will experience:

-   1 point: User was unable to complete the task. Reputation penalty
    equal to 1x payout.

-   2 points: User completed the task acceptably. Reputation gain equal
    to 1x payout.

-   3 points: User completed the task superbly. Reputation gain equal to
    1.5x payout.

The worker receives reputation both in the domain (and parent domains)
and the skill(s) of the task, while the manager receives only in the
domains, not in the skill(s) as they have not actually done the task.
While it is likely some knowledge is required to coordinate delivery of
the task, this is not always the case; we believe that skill reputation
should exclusively demonstrate ability to perform tasks.

Upon completion of a task, the evaluator also earns domain reputation
(with an implicit rating of \"2\"). There is no explicit rating of the
evaluator, but as with all other payouts a motion can be made before a
payout is claimable; the outcome of the motion may be a reduction of
payout or an explicit reputation penalty.\
Tasks are built on expenditures, and implementing tasks as an extension
contract makes use of the **arbitration** and **administration**
permissions -- the latter to manipulate the expenditure and the former
to implement consequences of the rate-and-reveal flow.

When the task is finalized, the underlying expenditure's `claimDelay`s
are set to allow for motions to be made. Based on the rating recipients
receive, their `payoutModifier`s are set to give a reputation boost (for
an excellent review) or reduce the payout they can claim (for an
unsatisfactory review). Also in the case of an unsatisfactory review, a
reputation penalty is emitted.

## Funding queues {#sec:funding-queues}

Section [\[sec:permissions\]](#sec:permissions){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:permissions"} describes the funding permission, which is
used to transfer funds in between **funding pots**. This permission is
powerful --- for daily operations, it is better to mediate the
allocation of funds via a more specialized mechanism. One such mechanism
is the **funding queue**, which leverages time as a driving factor to
enable *collaborative*, *asynchronous*, and *trustless* decision-making,
*without* voting.

The essential idea behind the funding queue is that tokens are
*continuously* allocated over time, rather than all at once in a
pass/fail fashion, with user inputs controlling the *speed* and
*direction* of the allocation. As an analogy, one can think of water
running down a mountain, where the shape of the mountain determines the
direction and speed of the flow. With funding queues, users determine
this shape. Whereas with voting-based systems, unpopular proposals fail
entirely, with a funding queue, unpopular proposals simply take a very
long time to be fulfilled, while popular proposals are fulfilled
quickly.

Any member of the colony may create a funding proposal. The proposer
must have 0.1% of the reputation of the domain that is the most recent
common ancestor of the source and target pots, and stake an equivalent
amount of the colony's tokens. This stake is used to help discourage
spamming of funding proposals and provide a mechanism whereby the
creator can be punished for bad behaviour.\
A funding queue contains of a series of **funding proposals**, each with
the following attributes:

-   `Creator` -- The person that created the proposal.

-   `From` -- Funding pot funds are coming from.

-   `To` -- Funding pot funds are going to.

-   `TokenType` -- The token address (0x0 for Ether).

-   `CurrentState` -- The state of the proposal (i.e.
    `inactive, active, completed, cancelled`).

-   `TotalPaid` -- Amount transferred thus far.

-   `TotalRequested` -- The total amount requested.

-   `LastUpdated` -- The time when the proposal was last updated.

-   `Rate` -- Rate of funding, a function of the backing reputation.

We distinguish between two types of funding proposals: **Basic Funding
Proposals (BFP)** intended for normal use, and **Priority Funding
Proposals (PFP)** intended to be used when a basic proposal is
inadequate, or for unusual circumstances. The basic funding proposal may
start funding the target straight away, whereas a priority funding
proposal must be explicitly voted on before it starts directing funds.
Furthermore, for a basic funding proposal the target pot must be a
direct descendant of the source in the hierarchy whereas a priority
funding proposal has no such restrictions. Priority funding proposals
should be used when funds need to be directed somewhere that is not a
direct descendant of the source, when the funding rate needs to be very
high (including immediate payment), or when multiple funding proposals
must occur in parallel (e.g. in the case of paying of salaries).

### Attributes in detail

### `From`, `To` and `TokenType` {#from-to-and-tokentype .unnumbered}

The purpose of a funding proposal is to move tokens of `TokenType` from
pot `From` to pot `To`. The `TokenType` may be Ether or any
ERC20-compatible token. The `From` field must be a funding pot
associated with a domain or an expenditure in the colony, while the `To`
field may be any funding pot (including the special rewards pot, see
Section [2.4](#sec:revenue){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:revenue"}). If the funds are to move 'downstream' from a
domain to one of its children, a basic funding proposal is often
sufficient.

### `CurrentState` {#currentstate .unnumbered}

The state of a funding proposal is either `inactive`, `active`,
`completed` or `cancelled`. Only an active funding proposal is in line
to channel funds. A basic funding proposal begins in active state while
a priority one begins inactive (i.e. it must be activated by a vote). A
funding proposal is active until it is either completed (when its
`TotalPaid` reaches `TotalRequested`) or cancelled.

The `creator` of a funding proposal may cancel it (setting
`CurrentState` to `cancelled`) at any time. This is analogous to the
creator of a task being able to cancel the task if it has not yet been
assigned a worker (see Section [3.1](#sec:tasks){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:tasks"}). Note that if an expenditure is cancelled,
funding proposals that have that expenditure's funding pot as their
target (`To`) are automatically cancelled when they are next pinged, and
no funds are reallocated. However, the funds that had already been
transferred are not automatically returned; it may require a PFP to
return the funds 'upstream'.[^11]

### `TotalPaid` and `TotalRequested` {#totalpaid-and-totalrequested .unnumbered}

The total number of funds that a funding proposal wishes to reallocate
is called its `TotalRequested` amount. Due to the mechanism by which
funding proposals accrue funds over time, it is common that a funding
proposal will have received a part but not all of its `TotalRequested`
amount. The total number of tokens accrued to date are stored in its
`TotalPaid` amount.

The `creator` of a funding proposal may edit the `TotalRequested`
property of a funding proposal at any time, but doing so resets the
reputational support that the proposal has in the funding queue to zero.
The intention here is for changes to funding to be potentially quick to
achieve with the agreement of others in the colony if the requirements
for the recipient pot change (e.g. the scope of a domain increases).

### `Rate` and `LastUpdated` {#rate-and-lastupdated .unnumbered}

When a funding proposal is eligible to accrue funds, it does so at a
specific `Rate`, denominated in 'tokens per second'. Since nothing
happens on the blockchain without user interaction, the funding system
uses a form of lazy evaluation. To claim funds that the proposal is due,
a user may 'ping' the proposal --- i.e. the user manually requests a
pro-rated distribution of funds.[^12] When pinged, the time since
`LastUpdated` is multiplied by the `Rate` to determine how many tokens
the proposal would have accrued in the interim if funding flow were
continuous. This amount is added to `TotalPaid`, the funds are
transferred, and the current time is recorded as `LastUpdated`.

`TotalPaid` is only ever increased up to `TotalRequested` and when this
happens as a result of a pinging transaction, the `LastUpdated` value is
set to the earliest time at which this could have occurred.

### Basic funding proposals

A basic funding proposal (**BFP**) is a funding proposal from some
domain's funding pot to one of its children's. It starts out in the
`active` state and is thus immediately eligible for funding. It may be
cancelled at any time by the `Creator`.

### Ordering of BFPs {#ordering-of-bfps .unnumbered}

When created, a basic funding proposal gets placed at the back of the
queue. Users can give a proposal 'backing' weighted by their reputation
in the source domain[^13] at the time of backing[^14]. The more
reputation backs a proposal, the higher up the queue it is placed. Every
transaction that adds backing to a proposal (or otherwise updates the
backing level) inserts the proposal in the correct place in the queue.
Only the proposal at the front of the queue accrues funds.

There are no costs to backing a proposal (other than gas costs) and the
users obtain no direct benefits; it does not represent them putting
their earned reputation at risk, nor any tokens --- it merely helps the
proposal achieve funding in a more timely fashion, and benefits them
indirectly by helping the colony run better.

### The rate of funding for BFPs {#the-rate-of-funding-for-bfps .unnumbered}

The more reputation backs a proposal, the faster it is funded. The rate
scales linearly, and at the limit, if 100% of the reputation in the
source domain backs a basic funding proposal, then that funding proposal
will be funded at a rate of 50% of the domain's holdings (of
`TokenType`) *per week.* The goal is a steady and predictable allocation
of resources directed collectively by the domain's (reputation weighted)
priorities.

When a user backs a proposal, both the user and their reputation at the
time are recorded. Consequently, the user is able to update their
backing at a later date. However, we note that such an update is not
automatic and even if a user loses reputation due to bad behaviour,
their backing level remains unchanged until explicitly updated. Anyone
is allowed to make this update -- imagine a scenario where a user lost a
lot of reputation due to bad behaviour, and other users wanted to stop a
funding proposal backed by that user from continuing to accrue funding.

We emphasised that a user could back a proposal with their reputation at
the time of backing because the reputation backing a proposal will not
change when that user's reputation does so. If by a quirk in this
system, the reputation recorded as backing a funding proposal ends up
higher than 100% of the total of that reputation in the colony, then the
funding occurs no quicker than it would at 100%.

### Completing a BFP {#completing-a-bfp .unnumbered}

If an update finds that a proposal is fully funded (i.e. `TotalPaid` =
`TotalRequested`), it is removed from this queue to allow the
next-most-popular funding proposal to accrue funds. Explicitly, the
following steps need to happen:

-   The time at which the funding proposal was fully funded is
    calculated.

-   `TotalPaid` is set to `TotalRequested`.

-   The BFP is removed from the queue.

-   The next BFP in the queue is promoted to the top of the queue, and
    its `LastUpdated` time is set as the time calculated in **1.**

Three days after the BFP has been fully funded (and thus `complete`) the
creator's stake is released. Until that time, the stake can be slashed
by the arbitration permission.

### Priority funding proposals

A priority funding proposal (**PFP**) is a funding proposal that can
request funds to be reallocated from any pot to any other at any rate.
PFPs begin in the `inactive` state and can only become `active` via an
explicit vote. The vote is based on reputation in the domain that is the
most recent common ancestor of the two pots that money is being
transferred between. We imagine PFPs will be used to:

-   reclaim funds from child domains.

-   reclaim funds from cancelled tasks.

-   fund tasks across domains.

-   set aside funds designated as a person's salary.

-   make large, one-off payments.

Unlike Basic Funding Proposals, Priority Funding Proposals are not
ordered in a queue --- all active PFPs are eligible to receive funding
at any time. Note that, since the amount of funds transferred is
ultimately a function of the funds available, too many large PFPs can
interfere with each other (and the leading BFP) by substantially
reducing the amount of funds available in the funding pot.

## Budget box {#sec:budget-box}

As an alternative to funding queues, colonies may instead choose to use
a Budget Box[^15] to allocate funding between subdomains (or to divide
funds among multiple recipients of an expenditure). Compared to funding
queues, in which items are funded *serially*, Budget Boxes allow items
to be funded *in parallel*, proportionally out of some fixed budget.
Budget Boxes are described in detail in [@BudgetBox].\
Depending on the usage, the extension would need the **funding** and
potentially **administration** permissions.

## Motions and disputes {#sec:motions-and-disputes}

The most successful organisations are those which are able to
effectively and efficiently make decisions, divide labour, and deploy
resources. Often, these many decisions are structured via management
hierarchies. But trustless colonies are intended to be low trust,
decentralised, and pseudonymous --- a hierarchy is not suitable.

In most DAO frameworks, the mechanism of collective-decision making is
usually voting, but Colony is designed for day-to-day operation of an
organisation. In a colony, voting on every decision is wholly
impractical. The emphasis should be on 'getting stuff done' and not
about 'applying for permission'. Therefore, Colony is designed to be
permissive. Task creation does not require explicit approval (Section
[3.1](#sec:tasks){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:tasks"}), nor do
basic funding proposals (Section
[3.2](#sec:funding-queues){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:funding-queues"}) or any number of administrative actions
throughout a colony.\
The **Motions System** provides a self-regulating mechanism which, via a
balanced set of incentives, lets users keep their colony running
harmoniously. It is there to resolve disagreements and to punish bad
behaviour and fraud. The motions system allows colony members to signal
disapproval of and potentially *force a vote* against users who have
acted inappropriately.

When a member of a colony feels that something is amiss, they may make a
**motion**. By doing so, they are fundamentally proposing that either a)
a variable, or more than one variable, in the colony should be changed
to another value, or b) a user, or more than one user, should receive a
reputation penalty. For this reason we call supporters of the motion the
'change' side and opponents the 'keep' side.

The user making the motion must also put up a stake of the colony's
internal token (see Section
[3.4.2](#sec:costs-of-motions){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:costs-of-motions"}). In essence, they are inviting the
rest of the colony to disagree with them. In the spirit of avoiding
unnecessary voting, the motion will pass automatically *unless* someone
else stakes on the 'keep' side and thereby elevates the motion to a
**dispute**.

We say that a dispute has been made whenever a motion has found support
on both the 'change' side as well as the 'keep' side. Once raised,
disputes must be resolved by voting.

### Making motions

The user making a motion submits the following data:

-   The data that should be changed, or users to receive penalties.

-   The reputation(s) that should vote on this issue (a maximum of one
    from each of the domain and skill hierarchies).

-   Proof that these reputations should be allowed to make the change in
    question.

The first item identifies the subject of the motion, and what the
appellant believes the state should be.[^16] The second and third points
concern appeals. The basic rule in Colony is: *you cannot appeal a
decision to higher management, you can only appeal to larger sets of
reputation.*

For example, suppose that the motion concerns a task in the 'frontend'
domain. The appellant could choose to have all 'development' reputation
vote on it --- we say the decision was 'appealed to the development
domain'. In this example, the third point would be a proof that the
domain 'frontend' was indeed a subdomain of 'development'. The highest
domain any decision can be appealed to is the root domain, where all
domain reputation is entitled to vote.

Whenever an appeal occurs, we need to ensure that the reputation we are
appealing to is a parent of the reputation associated with the variable
being changed. This is possible to do efficiently because of metadata
that is placed on the reputations (for domains) when they are created,
which includes pointers to at least the direct parent (see Section
[2.5.3](#subsec:on-chain-representation-of-skills){reference-type="ref"
reference="subsec:on-chain-representation-of-skills"}). When a user
makes a motion, instead of directly specifying the domain they are
appealing to, they provide the steps needed to get there from the domain
associated with the variable that is to be changed. This ensures that
the domain they appeal to is a direct parent of that associated with the
variable.

### Costs and rewards {#sec:costs-of-motions}

### Cost of making a motion {#cost-of-making-a-motion .unnumbered}

To make a motion, a user must possess enough reputation and must also
stake some number of the colony's tokens. The reputation they need to be
able to make the motion depends on the domain they are appealing to; the
'higher up' the decision goes, the higher the reputation requirement
(and potential loss). To be able to create a motion, the user must have
0.1% of the reputation in the domain and must stake 0.1% of the
corresponding fraction of tokens. Thus, if a motion involves 13% of
total colony reputation, then the motion requires 0.013% (0.1% of 13%)
of reputation and the required stake is 0.013% of all colony tokens.

If the initial user does not have the required number of tokens or
reputation, they can still create such a proposal by staking as little
as 10% of the tokens required, which requires them to have a
correspondingly smaller amount of reputation.[^17] In this case the
motion will not be 'live' until other users stake tokens, and take it
over the 0.1% threshold. The amount of tokens required to be staked for
a particular motion is recorded at the time when it is created. Users
can only stake tokens in proportion to the reputation they have. For
example, if they wanted to stake 40% of the tokens required, they must
have at least 40% of the reputation that would be required to create the
motion outright.

### Cost of opposing a motion {#cost-of-opposing-a-motion .unnumbered}

Once enough tokens have been staked on a motion it becomes active and,
barring any further actions for three days, the suggested change will
take place (when the motion is 'pinged' by a user). However, if there
are users who oppose the suggested 'change', they may stake tokens in
support of the 'keep' side. If the keep side receives sufficient
support, a dispute is created.

If the 'change' side does not garner enough support in three days, the
motion fails and is rejected. If, three days after the 'change' side had
enough tokens staked and the 'keep' side does not, then it is assumed
that the change is acceptable.

### Voting on disputes {#voting-on-disputes .unnumbered}

If both sides stake the required number of tokens within the time limit,
then the dispute goes to a vote. The weight of a user's vote is the sum
of their reputations in the skills chosen by the user who originally
made the motion.

The duration of the poll is determined by the amount of reputation
eligible to vote as a fraction of reputation in the colony. If a larger
fraction is eligible, the longer the poll is open for. The minimum
duration is two days and the maximum is seven. This is a trade-off
between allowing disagreements between small groups to be resolved
quickly, but to also allow adequate debate to occur when more people are
involved.

Voting takes place using a commit-and-reveal-scheme. This scheme is
desirable because votes are kept secret during the voting period,
preventing users from being influenced by what they perceive to be the
majority opinion.[^18] To make a vote, the user submits a hash that is
`keccak256(secret, optionId)`, where `optionId` indicates the option
that the user is voting for. Once voting has closed, the poll enters the
reveal phase, where a user can submit `(secret, optionId)` and the
contract calculates `keccak256(secret, optionId)` to verify it is what
they originally submitted.

As the secret is revealed it cannot be sensitive. It must also change
with each vote so that observers cannot establish what people are voting
for after they have revealed their first vote. While there are many
reasonable schemes for generating secure secrets, we suggest a (hash) of
the consequence field of the poll signed with their private key, as it
is easily reproducible by a client at a later date with no local storage
required.\
To combat voter apathy, 10% of the staked tokens are set aside to pay
voters when they vote: if a voter has 1% of the reputation allowed to
vote on a decision, they receive 1% of this pot that is set aside. They
receive this payout when they reveal their vote, regardless of the
direction they voted in or the eventual result of the decision. This
'payout regardless of opinion' is to avoid us falling victim to the
Keynesian beauty contest [@KeynesianBeauty], in which due to receiving a
reward for being "correct", voters are incentivised to vote for what
they believe most other people will vote for, rather than what they
independently believe. Any tokens that would have been awarded to users
who abstained from voting, or are not revealed in the reveal window, are
sent to the root domain funding pot once the poll closes.

Once a vote has been in the reveal phase for 48 hours, a transaction may
be made to finalise the vote. Any subsequent reveals of votes do not
contribute to the decision being made, but serve only to unlock the
user's tokens if it was a token-weighted or hybrid vote (see below).

### Consequences of the vote {#consequences-of-the-vote .unnumbered}

If the 'change' side wins the vote then the change in question is made,
but only if the reputation that voted for this outcome is more than
previous votes on the same variable. If the 'keep' side wins, then the
variable is not changed. In either case, the fraction of total
reputation in the colony that voted for the winning side is noted.

At the conclusion of the poll, losing stakers receive 0-90% of their
staked tokens back and they lose the complementary percentage of the
reputation that was required to stake. The exact amount of tokens they
receive back (and therefore reputation they lose) is based on:

-   The fraction of the reputation in the colony that voted.

-   How close the vote ultimately was.

At the end of a vote, if the vote was very close, then the losing side
receives nearly 90% of their stake back. If the vote is lopsided enough
that the winning side's vote weight ($w$) reaches a landslide threshold
($L$) of the total vote weight, then they receive 0% of their staked
tokens back. $L$ varies based on the fraction of total reputation in the
colony that voted ($R$):

$$L = 1 - \frac{R}{3}.$$

So for a small vote with little reputation in the colony being allowed
to vote, the decision has to be close to unanimous for the losing side
to be punished harshly. For a vote of the whole colony, the landslide
threshold $L$ reduces to 67% of the votes --- i.e. the reputation of the
colony overall was split 2-to-1 on the decision.

Between these extremes of a landslide loss and a very slim loss, the
loss of tokens and reputation suffered by the losing side beyond the 0.1
minimum ($\Delta$) varies linearly:

$$\Delta = 0.9 \times \min \left\lbrace \frac{w-0.5}{L-0.5}, 1 \right\rbrace$$

and so the total loss ($0.1 + \Delta$) varies between $0.1$ and $1$.

### What happens to the tokens lost? {#what-happens-to-the-tokens-lost .unnumbered}

Any tokens lost beyond the initial 10% are split between the colony and
those who staked on the winning side, proportional to the amount they
staked. Half of the reputation lost beyond the initial 10% is given to
those who staked on the winning side, and half is destroyed (the colony
as a whole having reputation has no meaning, unlike the idea of the
colony as a whole owning tokens).

The motivation here is efficiency --- it aims to discourage spurious
motions and disputes. A close vote is a sign that the decision was not a
simple one and forcing a vote may have been wise. Therefore, the
opposition should not be harshly punished. On the other hand, if a vote
ends in a landslide, it is a sign that the losing side was going up
against a general consensus. We encourage communication within the
colony. Members should be aware of the opinions of their peers whenever
possible before motions are made.

### Repeated motions {#repeated-motions .unnumbered}

In order to reduce the number of repeated motions and disputes over the
same variable, the fraction of total reputation in the colony that voted
for the winning side is recorded after every vote. This is the threshold
that must be exceeded in any future vote in order to change the variable
again. We reiterate that this value is updated after every vote on the
variable, even if the decision was to maintain the current value of the
variable.

This requirement is the primary driver of the appeals process. If a
decision was made in a domain, with low voter turnout, then it may be
possible to reverse the decision by holding another vote in the same
domain (along with a more vigorous off-chain get-out-the-vote campaign).
However, if a large fraction of the domain's reputation participated in
a vote, then the only way to gain the support of a larger body of
reputation (necessary to reverse the decision) would be to appeal the
motion to a higher domain, or to a larger body of skills.

There is one exception to this rule: to ensure that a variable can
always be changed if necessary, this threshold for changing the variable
is ignored if the motion was appealed to the root domain of the colony.
Anytime a vote is held in the root domain, regardless of prior votes on
the variable, the variable can be changed.

### Types of vote

Depending on the context and potential consequences of the vote, Colony
supports three types of voting. The type of vote a particular action
merits is predetermined based on the action, and is not a choice of the
appellant.

### Reputation-weighted voting {#reputation-weighted-voting .unnumbered}

Most votes in a colony will be due to motions related to tasks. In these
cases, the weights of the users' votes is proportional to the reputation
that each user has in the domain and skill that the vote is taking place
in. When such a vote starts, the current reputation state is stored
alongside the vote. This allows the current reputation state to be
'frozen' for the context of the vote, and prevents unwanted behaviours
that might otherwise be encouraged (for example, delaying submission of
a task until closer to voting so that the reputation earned has not
decayed as much).

When revealing their vote, the user also supplies a Merkle proof of
their relevant reputation contained within the reputation state that was
saved at the start of the vote. The total vote for the option they
demonstrated they voted for is then incremented appropriately.

### Token-weighted voting {#token-weighted-voting .unnumbered}

While Colony encourages the use of reputation as the primary
sibyl-resistance mechanism, there are situations where tokens are more
appropriate. Specifically, if reputation is a stand-in for 'labour', and
tokens are a stand-in for 'capital', then token-weighted votings are
appropriate whenever a decision must be made by capital, rather than by
labour. Whenever a decision would be made by 'investors' or
'shareholders' in a conventional firm, a token-weighted vote may be
appropriate.\
Unlike with reputation, we do not have the ability to 'freeze' the token
distribution when a vote starts. While this is effectively possible with
something like the MiniMe token [@minime], we envision token-weighted
(or hybrid) votes will still be regular enough within a Colony that we
do not wish to burden users with the gas costs of deploying a new
contract every time.

When conducting a token-weighted vote, steps must be taken to ensure
that tokens cannot be used to vote multiple times. In the case of 'The
DAO', once a user had voted their tokens were locked until the vote
completed. This introduced peculiar incentives to delay voting until as
late as possible to avoid locking tokens unnecessarily. Our locking
scheme avoids such skewed incentives by locking tokens only during the
reveal period.

Instead, once a vote enters the reveal phase, any user who has voted on
that poll will find themselves unable to see tokens sent to them, or be
able to send tokens themselves --- their token balance has become
locked. To unlock their token balance, users only have to reveal the
vote they cast for any polls that have entered the reveal phase ---
something they can do at any time. Once their tokens are unlocked, any
tokens they have notionally received since their tokens became locked
are added to their balance. This global lock prevents a scenario, for
example, where one user would reveal their vote and then send tokens to
a colluding user, who would then reveal their vote using the augmented
token balance.

It is possible to achieve this locking in constant gas by storing all
submitted secrets for votes in a sorted linked list indexed by
`closeTime`. If the first key in this linked list is earlier than `now`
when a user sends or would receive funds, then they find their tokens
locked. Revealing a vote causes the key to be deleted (if the user has
no other votes submitted for polls that closed at the same time). This
will unlock the tokens so long as the next key in the list is a
timestamp in the future. A more detailed description of our
implementation can be found on the Colony blog [@ColonyVoting].

Insertion into this structure can also be done in constant gas if the
client supplies the correct insertion location, which can be checked
efficiently on-chain, rather than searching for the correct location to
insert new items.

### Hybrid voting {#hybrid-voting .unnumbered}

A hybrid vote would allow both reputation holders and token holders to
vote on a decision. We envision such a vote being used when the action
being voted on would potentially have a sizeable impact on both
reputation holders and token holders. This would include altering the
supply of the colony tokens beyond the parameters already agreed (see
Section [3.5.1](#sec:colony-token-management){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:colony-token-management"}) or when deciding whether to
execute an arbitrary transaction (see Section
[2.8](#sec:arbitrary-transaction){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:arbitrary-transaction"}).

In order for a proposal to successfully pass through a hybrid vote a
majority of both reputation and token holders who vote must agree that
the change should be enacted.

## Miscellaneous {#sec:extensions-misc}

### Token management {#sec:colony-token-management}

While **root** users can mint tokens at-will, in many cases it will be
desirable to mediate this ability via an extension contract. Here we
describe such an extension.

### Token generation and initial supply {#token-generation-and-initial-supply .unnumbered}

When the extension is deployed, the `TokenSupplyCeiling` and the
`TokenIssuanceRate` are set. The former is the total number of colony
tokens that will be created and the latter is the rate at which they
become available to the root domain to assign to subdomains or
expenditures. The number of tokens available to the root domain can be
updated at any time by a transaction from any user (i.e. a public
function will determine the pro-rated amount of tokens to generate since
the last distribution).

### Increasing the TokenSupplyCeiling {#increasing-the-tokensupplyceiling .unnumbered}

It is advised that new tokens not be generated without widespread
consensus --- especially if tokens have a financial value. Consequently,
such decisions require a vote with high quorum and majority requirements
involving both the token holders and reputation holders.

### Changing the TokenIssuanceRate {#changing-the-tokenissuancerate .unnumbered}

The `TokenSupplyCeiling` represents the total number of tokens that the
token holders have granted to the colony in order to conduct business:
to fund domains and expenditures, and to incentivize workers and
contributors.

The `TokenIssuanceRate` controls how rapidly the colony receives the new
tokens. If the rate is 'too high', tokens will accumulate in the funding
pot of the root domain (or other funding pots lower in the hierarchy).
If the rate is too low, this signals that the colony has a healthy
amount of activity and that the issuance rate has become a bottleneck.
In such situations it may be desirable to increase the rate of issuance
without necessarily increasing the maximum supply.

Increasing and decreasing the `TokenIssuanceRate` by up to 10% can be
done by the reputation holders alone and this action can be taken no
more than once every 4 weeks. Larger changes to the issuance rate should
additionally require the agreement of existing token holders.

### Compensation Modalities {#sec:salary}

Using expenditures, it is possible to implement many types of
compensation modalities. In addition to the 'task' (see Section
[3.1](#sec:tasks){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:tasks"}), we can
conceive of a number of additional modalities of compensation.

### Salaries {#salaries .unnumbered}

Tasks imply colony-worker relationships are mostly transactional. In
many cases, it is desirable to represent more long-term relationships
via a *salary*.

A salary can be as simple as a `recipient`, `amount`, and `period`, and
`lastClaimed`. At any point, the recipient can ping the salaries
contract, at which point the contract will create an expenditure made
out to the recipient, with funding equivalent to the pro-rated amount
since the last salary payout. If the recipient is willing to pay the gas
costs, they could conceivably claim (a fraction of) their salary daily,
or choose to claim weekly, monthly, or at whatever cadence suits them.
It would be the responsibility of the colony to ensure that adequate
funding is available in the domain out of which salaries are to be paid.

This extension would need the **funding** and **administration**
permissions to manipulate tokens and expenditures on behalf of the
recipients.

### Recurring or Automatic Tasks {#recurring-or-automatic-tasks .unnumbered}

While for certain kinds of work, tasks are unique and must be
individually scoped out and subjectively evaluated. However, we can
imagine situations where work can be done by many people and/or
evaluated automatically by computer (such as rewarding users for
participating in a referral program). In these cases, a variation of the
task which contains logic for evaluating the work, and allows anyone to
submit the work, would be appropriate.

This extension would need the **funding** and **administration**
permissions to manipulate tokens and expenditures on behalf of the
recipients.

### Awarding reputation for work not captured by tasks

All reputation decays over time, as described in Section
[2.5](#sec:reputation){reference-type="ref" reference="sec:reputation"}.
This prevents a permanent 'reputation aristocracy' and allows reputation
to remain relevant even after major changes in the colony token's value.

Reputation is awarded when a user receives payment of a colony's
internal token --- most commonly as payout from an expenditure, but
sometimes from motions resolution and, in the case of the Metacolony,
from the reputation mining process. We can use the expenditure mechanism
to award users extra reputation when there is consensus to do so.

Consider the scenario in which a founder, or an important early
contributor to a colony has almost no reputation left by the time the
colony starts earning revenue; perhaps the development of the product
took a long time or perhaps the reputation decay rate was sub-optimally
high for the particular colony.[^19] Or perhaps the founder was doing a
lot of intangible work to get the colony off the ground in the first
place and so was never compensated properly on-chain. To get around the
limitations of the reputation system and to re-integrate the founder
(and make them eligible to receive their rewards), the colony can create
an expenditure that is solely designed to award the reputation they are
due. To qualify for the payout of tokens (and thereby the reputation),
the user in question would have to give the same number of tokens back
to the colony. Again, a good frontend abstraction could make such
reputation awards easy and intuitive.

Another important scenario concerns absences due to maternity/paternity
or illness -- the reputation system should not implicitly discriminate
against these users. While 'pausing' reputation decay is not a viable
option, various mechanisms of giving reputation 'for free' can be used
to ensure that these users retain their reputation during periods of
unavoidable absence.

The important point is that any limitations imposed by the system can be
weakened if there is consensus to do so. The system should not stand in
the way of consensus, it should just provide conflict resolution
mechanisms for those times in which there is dissent.

### Motions by non-members

Having reputation is a prerequisite for creating a motion or staking an
opposition. Therefore, if an outsider is hired by a colony to perform a
task, they will not, on their own, be able to make a motion in defense
of their work. However, a good colony frontend may allow them to create
the template for a motion, effectively calling for members of the colony
to support it and submit the motion to the colony network on-chain on
their behalf.

This is analogous to a member staking only 10% of the required amount
and waiting for further support from their peers (Section
[3.4.2](#sec:costs-of-motions){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:costs-of-motions"}), with the difference being that
without any third party support, the motion would never be processed
on-chain.

# The Colony Network {#sec:colonynetwork}

The Colony Network is a collection of contracts on the Ethereum
blockchain. At the core of the network is the `ColonyNetwork` contract.
This contract is primarily responsible for managing the reputation
mining process (see Section
[5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"}), but also for general management of
the network: deploying new colonies, setting the fees associated with
using the network, and releasing new versions of the `Colony` contracts.
These actions will be mediated by a special colony, the Metacolony.

## Revenue model {#sec:networkrevenue}

The Colony Network must be able to sustain itself. In particular, the
MetacolonyÂ (which controls the Colony Network) maintains the contracts
that underpin the network and develops new functionality for the network
--- development of which needs to be paid for. Long term, the
development and maintenance of the network (including the reputation
system) needs to be financed by the network itself.

### The network fee {#sec:networkfee}

We propose a fee levied on expenditure and reward payouts. When a user
claims a payout, some small fraction will be paid to the network. The
fees are sent to either the MetacolonyÂ (if the payment was in Ether or
another whitelisted 'currency' token) or the Colony Network contract (if
it is any other ERC20-compatible token). A cartoon showing the revenue
split is show in Figure [5](#fig:revenueSplit){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:revenueSplit"}.

<figure id="fig:revenueSplit">

<figcaption>Summary of the revenue split upon payout for a
task.</figcaption>
</figure>

This idea of a fee is a little unusual for such a decentralised system.
One of the appeals of decentralised systems on Ethereum is that other
than gas costs, they do not seek rent and are free to use. However, the
network fee is key to ensuring the game theoretic security of the Colony
Network's reputation mining and governance processes, by providing
underlying value to the CLNY held by MetacolonyÂ members. Importantly,
this fee is not payable to any centrally controlled entity, but rather
to the Metacolony. As anybody may contribute to the Metacolony, anyone
may claim a share of these fees proportional to their contribution. We
believe that the benefit of being part of a secure, well maintained
network will be appealing enough that a small fee to pay for its
existence will be acceptable.

The presence of this fee means we have to make some considerations which
would otherwise be irrelevant. Primarily, we will need to make
'piggyback' contracts as hard as possible to make that might e.g. be
used to pay out an expenditure payout when a expenditure was finalized,
but without sending the fee.

### The token auction

As the network fee may be denominated in any ERC20 token, there is a
need for a mechanism to liquidate arbitrary bundles of tokens: the token
auction. The tokens collected are auctioned off by the Colony Network
Contract, with the auctions denominated in Colony Network Tokens, the
proceeds of which are burnt. These auctions --- one for each type of
token collected --- occur on a regular basis of once a month.

We believe such a mechanism will be beneficial for the Colony Network
Token holdersÂ (whose tokens gain value by having an explicit use beyond
reputation mining) and the MetacolonyÂ itself (by reducing the supply of
Colony Network TokensÂ and thus making any future minting more valuable).
It also provides an immediate mechanism of price discovery for a
colony's internal tokens, which are unlikely to be traded on third-party
exchanges until much later in the lifetime of the colony. By auctioning
off the collected tokens, we also prevent the MetacolonyÂ collecting a
large number of different tokens that it has to manage, which would
prove cumbersome and annoying.

## The MetacolonyÂ and CLNY {#sec:clny}

The MetacolonyÂ is a special colony which governs the Colony Network.
Tokens in the MetacolonyÂ are known as CLNY and will be initially
generated during the Colony Network distribution period.[^20]

### Role of CLNY holders and the Metacolony

CLNY holders have two primary roles. The first is to participate in the
reputation mining process, described in Section
[5](#sec:reputationmining){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:reputationmining"}. The second is management of the
Colony Network itself. There will be permissioned functions on the
Network Contract to allow fundamental parameters of the network to be
set, which can only be called by the Metacolony. For these permissioned
functions to be called by the Metacolony, a vote open to all CLNY and
reputation holders must be conducted.

Management of the Colony Network also includes making updates to Colony
contracts available to colonies. CLNY holders are not necessarily
responsible for the development of these updates, but are required to
vote to deploy them. They are therefore responsible for at least
ensuring due diligence is done, either by themselves or by service
providers, to avoid introducing security weaknesses or other undesirable
behaviour. In return for the responsibility of the development and
maintenance of the Colony Network, the MetacolonyÂ is the beneficiary of
the network fee (see Section
[4.1](#sec:networkrevenue){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:networkrevenue"}).

Reputation in the MetacolonyÂ can be acquired by earning CLNY tokens by
via expenditure payouts just as in any other colony (see Section
[2.5.2](#sec:earning-losing-rep){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:earning-losing-rep"}). Reputation in the MetacolonyÂ can
also be earned by participating in the reputation mining process (see
Section [5.8](#subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards){reference-type="ref"
reference="subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards"}), which is unique to the
Metacolony.

### Handing off decision-making power to the Metacolony {#subsec:ceding-control-to-rc}

Colony Network TokenÂ holders are responsible for reputation mining from
the start, but decisions about the underlying properties of the network
will initially be made by a multisignature contract controlled by the
Colony team. As the network develops and is proved to be effective,
control over these decisions will cede to the Metacolony.

### Stage 1: Colony team multisig in control {#stage-1-colony-team-multisig-in-control .unnumbered}

Initially, the Network Contract's functions will be
**root**-permissioned to only allow transactions from the multisig
contract under the control of the Colony team to change these properties
of the network.

### Stage 2: Colony team multisig approval required {#stage-2-colony-team-multisig-approval-required .unnumbered}

At a later date, an extension contract will be set up and given the
**root** permission. This contract will allow the MetacolonyÂ (as a
whole, via the governance mechanisms provided to all colonies) to
propose changes to be made to the Colony Network Contract. The
intermediate contract will have functionality such that all changes will
have to be explicitly allowed by the account under the control of the
Colony team. In other words, the MetacolonyÂ will be able to propose
changes, but the team must sign them off.

### Stage 3: Colony team multisig retains veto {#stage-3-colony-team-multisig-retains-veto .unnumbered}

The next stage will be a second extension contract operating similarly
to the first, but after a timeout --- with no interaction from the
Colony team's account --- the change will be able to be forwarded to the
Colony Network Contract by anyone. The Colony team's role will be to
block changes if necessary. Thus at this stage the MetacolonyÂ will be
able to make changes autonomously, but the Colony team retains a veto.
The proposal to move to this contract will have to come from the
MetacolonyÂ itself.

### Stage 4: MetacolonyÂ fully controls the network {#stage-4-metacolony-fully-controls-the-network .unnumbered}

Finally, the specialized extension contract will be removed and replaced
with a generic voting extension (see Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}), and the MetacolonyÂ will have
direct control over the Colony Network Contract with no privileged
control available to the Colony team other than that provided by any
CLNY and reputation held.

# Reputation Mining {#sec:reputationmining}

The reputation system is a core component of any decentralised colony.
By carefully balancing the rewards and penalties we aim to keep every
users' incentives aligned with the colony and the colony network. Since
reputation can only be *earned* and not transferred between accounts,
the system fosters a more meritocratic form of decision making than pure
token-weighted voting can hope to achieve. The continuous decay of
reputation ensures that the influence conveyed by reputation is recently
earned and up-to-date. As such, it prevents a reputation aristocracy and
allows for a fluid passing of control from one set of contributors to
another over time.

Due to the combined complexity of reputation scores across multiple
colonies, domains, and skills, reputation scores cannot be stored or
calculated on-chain. Instead, the calculations will all take place
off-chain, the results of which will be reported to the blockchain by
participating CLNY holders --- in a process resembling a proof-of-stake
blockchain consensus protocol. We call this procedure **Reputation
Mining**.

The reputation calculation whose result the miners are submitting is
determined by the activities that have taken place in the colonies and
can be fully deterministically derived from the Ethereum blockchain.
Game-theoretically the system is protected similarly to the off-chain
calculations of TrueBit ([@TruebitWhitepaper]) in that, *while the
calculation cannot be done on-chain and a correct submission can never
be proved true, an incorrect calculation can always be proved to be
wrong*.

## Merkle-Patricia trees and proofs {#sec:Merkle-summary}

This subsection contains only a summary of Merkle-Patricia trees
([@MerkleTrees], [@MerkleInEthereum]) and Merkle proofs in order to
establish some terminology, and can be skipped if already familiar with
them.

A Merkle-Patricia tree, or 'trie', is a key-value store with two special
properties: efficient insertion and lookup, and a compact cryptographic
state signature. Put succinctly, it is Patricia in the branches, and
Merkle in the nodes -- the branching of the tree is determined by the
keys (in a way which avoids redundant tree traversal), while the values
in the nodes are determined by recursively hashing the values inserted
in the leaves.

Consider the tree shown in Figure
[6](#fig:Merkleexample){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:Merkleexample"}, in which every values has a 4-bit key.
The data leaves of the tree (1, 2, 3 and 4), which correspond to the
keys (0000, 0010, 00111, and 1011), are each hashed individually to give
A, B, C and D. These are then repeatedly hashed pairwise, following the
branching structure determined by the keys, until only a single hash
remains, indicated by G. The resulting structure is known as a
Merkle-Patricia tree. In order to prove that the element `1` is in the
tree with root `G`, one submits a Merkle proof containing the
information `(0000, 1, [E,D], [1010])`. The first pair of arguments are
the key-value pair whose existence is to be proved. The third argument
is the array of node hashes ('siblings') that the leaf hash should be
recursively hashed with. The last argument, the 'branch mask', is an
array of `1`'s and `0`'s that indicate which bits of they key correspond
to the branching points (in this case, the first and third
most-significant bits). So to show that `3` was in the tree with root
`G`, the proof would be of the form `(0011, 3, [B,A,D], [1011])`.

<figure id="fig:Merkleexample">

<figcaption>A simple Merkle-Patricia tree with 4-bit keys. Element A is
the hash of value 1, with a key of 0000. Element E is the hash of B
concatenated with C, and so on recursively up to the root G. Changing
any leaf value will change the root, the essential
property.</figcaption>
</figure>

## The Reputation Tree {#sec:reptree}

The key-value pairs in the reputation tree are the reputations all users
have in all skills, as well as the colony-wide totals. A single
key-value pair consists of the following data: $$\begin{aligned}
k &=
  \begin{cases}
  \texttt{colony} & \textnormal{address of the colony the reputation is in}\\
  \texttt{user} & \textnormal{account address holding the reputation}\\
  \texttt{skill} & \textnormal{skill id of the reputation}
  \end{cases}\\
v &=
  \begin{cases}
  \texttt{amount} & \textnormal{numerical value of the reputation}\\
  \texttt{nonce} & \textnormal{unique per-leaf id (used in reputation mining)}
  \end{cases}
\end{aligned}$$

All individual reputations are assembled into the **Reputation Tree**
which is a Merkle-Patricia tree of all individual reputations in a
colony, as well as the total reputation of each type held by the users
in each colony. The leaves that represent these colony-wide totals are
indicated by setting `user` to zero. These leaves are then inserted into
the tree as described in Section
[5.1](#sec:Merkle-summary){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:Merkle-summary"}. We term the root hash of the resulting
tree the `ReputationRootHash`, $\mathcal{RH}$.

<figure>

<figcaption>The Merkle tree of usersâ reputations with
<code>ReputationRootHash</code> as the root. We use <span
class="math inline">â</span> to indicate the <code>keccak256</code> hash
function.</figcaption>
</figure>

The `ReputationRootHash` is the only data we record on the blockchain
associated with users' reputations. It summarises the state of the whole
reputation system and whenever a user wishes to make use of their
reputation, they can submit a Merkle proof from the reputation
$\mathcal{R}_i$ they wish to make use of and ending at $\mathcal{RH}$.

## Calculating the new root hash

To calculate the new root hash, the miners begin with the last
reputation state, and decay all reputations held by all users in all
colonies, in the order of the leaf nonces. They then take the set of
reputation gains or losses that were not in the last state submitted,
and are to be included in the next state (the update log). They apply
the reputation updates to each user in each colony, updating or adding
leaves as necessary (following the process described in
[5.5.1](#sec:justificationTree){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:justificationTree"}), to end up with a new list of
reputations for all users and colonies. These new reputations are then
hashed and assembled into a new Merkle-Patricia tree yielding an updated
`ReputationRootHash`.

While the calculation is too large to be done on-chain due to technical
and economic limitations (i.e. the block gas limit and the cost of gas,
respectively), this calculation can easily be performed by a typical
user's computer.

## Submission of a new root hash

### What is submitted? {#what-is-submitted .unnumbered}

The final `ReputationRootHash` is submitted to the contract by the miner
along with the number of leaves in the tree (`NReputationLeaves`). The
miner also submits the root hash of the Justification Tree (see Section
[5.5.1](#sec:justificationTree){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:justificationTree"}), which will be used in the event of
a dispute. These three properties uniquely identify a submission.

### Who can submit a new root hash? {#who-can-submit-a-new-root-hash .unnumbered}

All Colony Network Token holdersÂ are eligible to become miners and
participate in the reputation update process. Since any user can
calculate the correct root hash locally, it should be possible for *any*
miner to submit the hash to the contract.

It is however undesirable to have too many submissions for every update.
We propose a mechanism that only allows some miners to submit results to
begin with. To participate in the mining process, Colony Network Token
holdersÂ must stake some of their tokens to become 'reputation miners'. A
submission will only be accepted from a miner if
$$\label{eq:mining-difficulty}
\texttt{uint256(keccak256(address, N, hash))} < \texttt{target}.\footnote{Note that internally the arguments are encoded using \texttt{abi.encodePacked} before being hashed.}$$
At the beginning of the submission window, the target is set to 0 and
slowly increases to $2^{256}-1$ after 1Â hour. We limit the total number
of miners allowed to submit a specific hash to 12. In the unlikely event
that no submissions are received before the 1-hour window has elapsed,
exactly one submission will be accepted, whenever it is received.

The variable $N$ that goes into the hash is some integer greater than 0
and less than the number of tokens the Colony Network Token
holderÂ account has staked divided by $2000 \cdot 10^{18}$â meaning that
users with a large stake have a higher chance of qualifying to submit a
hash sooner than smaller stake holders. The factor of
$2000 \cdot 10^{18}$Â is introduced to ensure that all hashes a user is
eligible to submit can be calculated in a few seconds by the client. It
also effectively creates a minimum number of tokens that must be staked
to submit a hash. This puts a tangible cost on any attacks revolving
around spamming known false submissions (see Section
[5.7](#sec:mining-possible-attacks){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:mining-possible-attacks"}).

When a miner stakes, the timestamp of the stake is recorded.[^21] In
order to be eligible to submit a hash, the miner must have staked before
the beginning of the current mining cycle.

### Verifying a submission {#verifying-a-submission .unnumbered}

If only one state is submitted by the end of the submission period, then
the new state is accepted, and proposals of the next state can begin to
be made. This is expected to be the most common occurrence.

If more than one state has been submitted, then either someone has made
a mistake, or there is a malicious entity trying to introduce a
fraudulent reputation change. In this event, the a challenge-response
protocol can establish which state is incorrect (see Section
[5.5](#sec:challenge-response){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:challenge-response"}).

### Mining rewards {#mining-rewards .unnumbered}

When a state is accepted, a number of (newly minted) Colony Network
TokensÂ are made available for the users who submitted the correct state
to claim as a reward. They also receive a corresponding amount of
reputation in the MetacolonyÂ (in a special mining skill, which only
users in the MetacolonyÂ can earn by performing this task). This
reputation update is no different from any other, aside from the
limitations of who is able to earn it, and will be included in the
subsequent reputation update cycle. The size of the rewards and their
distribution are described in Section
[5.8](#subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards){reference-type="ref"
reference="subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards"}.

## Dealing with false submissions {#sec:challenge-response}

We assume that the correct hash is one of the submitted hashes. This is
a reasonable assumption, as only one out of all the miners is required
to make a correct submission, and there is an incentive for them to do
so (the reward defined in Section
[5.8](#subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards){reference-type="ref"
reference="subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards"}). Thus our task is not to
validate the correct hash but to invalidate the false one(s).

We must prove all but one submission incorrect by having each submission
prove that they calculated more correct reputation updates before
getting one wrong (if any) than another submission they are being
compared against. Anyone is able to respond to a challenge (and be
rewarded), regardless of who submitted the original hash; this should
ensure that the correct state is always defended, even if some miners go
offline.

We consider the scenario where only two submissions are made, and one is
correct. In the event of more than two submissions, this same pair-wise
comparison described below is repeatedly run (in parallel, where
possible) among remaining submissions until only one remains.

### The Justification Tree {#sec:justificationTree}

A client submits a `JustificationRootHash` ($\mathbb{JRH}$) as part of
the process of submitting a proposed new root hash. This is the Merkle
root of the 'Justification Tree' -- a Merkle-Patricia tree where each
leaf represents not a single reputation value, but the root hash of an
entire reputation state. The left-most leaf of the Justification Tree is
the final accepted reputation state from the last update
($\mathcal{RH}_0$) concatenated with the number of leaves
($\mathcal{L}_0$) in the reputation tree $\mathcal{RH}_0$ is the root
of. The right-most leaf of the Justification Tree is the
`ReputationRootHash` they submitted ($\mathcal{RH}_N$) concatenated with
the number of leaves it contains ($\mathcal{L}_N$). We denote these
leaves as $\mathcal{RH}_0 \cdot \mathcal{L}_0$ and
$\mathcal{RH}_N \cdot \mathcal{L}_N$.

The intermediate leaves represent the evolution of the global reputation
state after applying some subset of the full sequence of reputation
updates required. Each state represented by a leaf differs from the
reputation states in neighboring leaves in *at most* a single
reputation.[^22] In order to do this in a consistent way, we must order
all the updates in a reputation cycle. The canonical ordering for
reputation updates is:

1.  All decays of existing reputations, in order of `nonce`,

2.  The entries in the reputation update log, in order of appearance in
    the reputation update log. A single one of these entries corresponds
    to at least two reputation updates with an unbounded upper limit
    (since there can be many parent and child updates). These updates
    are themselves ordered:

    1.  Colony-wide total of any impacted child reputations
        []{#lab:colonyWideChildren label="lab:colonyWideChildren"}

    2.  Colony-wide total of any impacted parent reputations
        []{#lab:colonyWideParents label="lab:colonyWideParents"}

    3.  The colony-wide total of the origin reputation

    4.  User-specific child reputations []{#lab:userChildren
        label="lab:userChildren"}

    5.  User-specific parent reputations[]{#lab:userParents
        label="lab:userParents"}

    6.  User-specific origin reputation

    The origin reputation is defined to be the skill specified in the
    reputation log where the reputation is to be lost or gained. Where
    multiple child reputations are required to be updated as part of
    [\[lab:colonyWideChildren\]](#lab:colonyWideChildren){reference-type="ref"
    reference="lab:colonyWideChildren"} or
    [\[lab:userChildren\]](#lab:userChildren){reference-type="ref"
    reference="lab:userChildren"}, they are done so in the order they
    appear in the `children` property of the origin skill. Where
    multiple parent reputations are required to be updated as part of
    [\[lab:colonyWideParents\]](#lab:colonyWideParents){reference-type="ref"
    reference="lab:colonyWideParents"} or
    [\[lab:userParents\]](#lab:userParents){reference-type="ref"
    reference="lab:userParents"}, the immediate parent is updated first,
    then the immediate parent of that skill, and so on until no parents
    remain. We do the decay calculations first to give users the benefit
    of the doubt during reputation updates so they do not lose
    reputation they have only just earned to premature decay.

As a miner applies the reputation updates for a cycle in this order,
they should take each intermediate `ReputationRootHash` values and build
the Justification Tree by adding the intermediate `ReputationRootHash`
values concatenated with `NReputationLeaves` to the tree, *with key
equal to the update number*, starting from 0. Note that unlike in the
Reputation Tree, the keys should not be hashed. This will become
important further on in the dispute process, as we will need to be able
to identify sequentially adjacent reputation updates. The intermediate
leaves of the Justification Tree represent the evolution of the
reputation state, with $\mathcal{RH}_i$ corresponding to the reputation
state after the first $i$ reputation updates in this cycle have been
applied. An example of such a tree is shown in Figure
[7](#fig:justification-tree){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:justification-tree"}.

<figure id="fig:justification-tree">

<figcaption>The Justification Tree. The leaf containing <span
class="math inline">â(<em>R</em><em>H</em><sub>0</sub>ââ<sub>0</sub>)</span>
â the last accepted reputation state â is found at key
<code>...00</code>. The leaf containing <span
class="math inline">â(<em>R</em><em>H</em><sub>1</sub>ââ<sub>1</sub>)</span>
â the reputation state with the decay of the existing skill with nonce 0
applied â is found at key <code>...01</code>. Every intermediate state
is recorded in the tree up to <span
class="math inline">â(<em>R</em><em>H</em><sub><em>N</em></sub>ââ<sub><em>N</em></sub>)</span>,
which is the proposed new reputation state with all reputation updates
applied.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Resolving a dispute

If a dispute occurs, the first step is for each submission to verify the
Justification Tree they submitted alongside their proposed new root
hash.

### 1. Verifying the Justification Tree {#verifying-the-justification-tree .unnumbered}

For a justification tree to be deemed valid, it must:

-   Have $\mathcal{H}(RH_0 \cdot \mathcal{L}_0)$ at key 0,

-   Have $\mathcal{H}(RH_N \cdot \mathcal{L}_N)$ at key $N$,

-   Have a plausible structure.

The first two items are relatively straightforward to prove via Merkle
proof. The last requirement requires slightly more explanation. A
Justification Tree with two leaves could meet the first two
requirements, but we would be able to tell this tree wasn't plausible as
a Justification Tree because the Merkle proofs supplied to prove the
first two requirements would not be of the expected length.[^23] This
length is calculable because we know how many leaves are meant to be in
the tree and what keys they are expected to be at (every key between 0
and $N$). We are also able to determine the branchmasks that these
proofs should have (the binary representations of
$2^{\lceil\log_2 (N+1) \rceil} - 1$, and $N$ respectively), which
further constrains the shape of a plausible tree.

Unfortunately, based on these two proofs, we are unable to guarantee the
Justification Tree contains a leaf at every key from 0 to $N$. This is
because we do not know how many leaves the siblings used in the Merkle
proofs contain, and it is not feasible to request a proof for every key
between $1$ and $N-1$. This is why the constraint is limited to being
'plausible'. With the approach we have taken, however, we are at least
able to guarantee that key $N$ is the last in the Justification Tree,
that key $0$ is the first (though this is a trivial consequence of it
existing), and there are at least some number of other keys in the
tree.[^24]

Since any two differing submitted states agree on the first leaf
$\mathcal{RH}_0$ (the `ReputationRootHash` accepted at the end of the
previous iteration of the mining cycle), and disagree on the last leaf
$\mathcal{RH}_N$ (the hash they submitted), there must be a hash
$\mathcal{RH}_i$ that they agree on, and a hash that
$\mathcal{RH}_{i+1}$ that they do not. This is a reputation update where
they agree on the starting state but disagree on the result. This
transition is meant to be the effect of a single reputation update (the
$i^{th}$), and this is the reputation update we will calculate on-chain
to establish which submission is incorrect.\
First, however, we must establish where the two submissions begin to
differ.

### 2. Searching for the discrepancy {#searching-for-the-discrepancy .unnumbered}

The contract requires both parties to submit repeated Merkle proofs to
locate $\mathcal{RH}_{i+1}$, the first disagreement hash. We shall call
the two parties $A$ and $B$ and we shall indicate which party made a
submission by a superscript of $A$ or $B$. Furthermore we introduce the
simplifying notation of $\overline{h}$ to mean 'sibling of $h$' in the
Merkle tree.

Along with their justification root hashes $\ensuremath{\mathbb{JRH}}^A$
and $\ensuremath{\mathbb{JRH}}^B$ both parties have already submitted
proofs for the left-most leaf. Ignoring the branchmasks for simplicity,
these proofs have the form:
$$\overline{\mathcal{RH}_0}^A, \overline{h_{0,1}}^A, \overline{h_{0,2}}^A, \ldots \overline{h_{0,2^k}}^A \qquad \textnormal{ terminating at } \ensuremath{\mathbb{JRH}}^A$$
and
$$\overline{\mathcal{RH}_0}^B, \overline{h_{0,1}}^B, \overline{h_{0,2}}^B, \ldots \overline{h_{0,2^k}}^B \qquad \textnormal{ terminating at } \ensuremath{\mathbb{JRH}}^B$$
where $k$ is the largest integer such that $2^k$ is smaller than $n$.

When the first miner (say $A$) submits their proof the contract saves
the values of $h_{0,2^k}^A$ and $\overline{h_{0,2^k}}^A$. When the
second miner submits their proof the contract compares $h_{0,2^k}^A$ to
$h_{0,2^k}^B$. If they are not equal, the contract saves both of these
values (and forgets $\overline{h_{0,2^k}}^A$). If they are equal, the
contract retains the values of $\overline{h_{0,2^k}}^A$ and
$\overline{h_{0,2^k}}^B$ (forgetting $h_{0,2^k}^A$).

The rationale behind this behaviour is the following: If
$h_{0,2^k}^A = h_{0,2^k}^B$ then the two justification trees are equal
between $\mathcal{RH}_0$ and $\mathcal{RH}_{2^{k-1}}$ and the first
discrepancy must lie in the right-hand subtree whose root is
$\overline{h_{0,2^k}}^A$ for miner $A$ and $\overline{h_{0,2^k}}^B$ for
miner $B$. If on the other hand $h_{0,2^k}^A \neq h_{0,2^k}^B$, then the
first discrepancy must lie in the left-hand subtrees given by
$h_{0,2^k}^A$ and $h_{0,2^k}^B$. The situation is summarised by
$$\begin{aligned}
 h_{0,2^k}^A \neq h_{0,2^k}^B & \Longrightarrow & \textnormal{First discrepancy occurs at some } \mathcal{RH}_i \textnormal{ with } 0 \leqslant i < 2^k\\
 h_{0,2^k}^A = h_{0,2^k}^B & \Longrightarrow & \textnormal{First discrepancy occurs at some } \mathcal{RH}_i \textnormal{ with } 2^k \leqslant i < n
\end{aligned}$$

The contract begins its search by picking an index $j$ from within the
range the first discrepancy in known to lie in (say always the
smallest), and requiring both parties to provide a Merkle proof showing
value of `ReputationRootHash` and `NReputationLeaves` at that key in the
Justification Tree. The required target of this proof is no longer the
$\ensuremath{\mathbb{JRH}}$ itself, but rather the retained value for
$h_{0,2^k}$ or $\overline{h_{0,2^k}}$.

The process as before of comparing hashes and retaining the roots of
either the left-side subtree or the right-side subtree is repeated. With
each iteration, the range of possible values for the index of the first
discrepancy is reduced by (on average) a factor of two and the length of
the required Merkle proofs is reduced by at least one.

There are two ways this process can terminate. The first way the process
terminates is when one party does not respond to a challenge in adequate
time, either because they could not or chose not to. In this case the
party not responding is deemed to be incorrect. The other way the
process terminates is when it has reached the bottom of the tree and
determined $i$, the disputed reputation update.

### 3. Confirming $i$  {#confirming-i .unnumbered}

Once the contract has found the index $i$ such that
$\mathcal{RH}^A_{i}=\mathcal{RH}^B_{i}$ but
$\mathcal{RH}^A_{i+1}\neq\mathcal{RH}^B_{i+1}$, the contract then
requires each party to submit the value stored at the key $i+1$ in the
Justification Tree to confirm that it is there. It is possible that this
was already done during the binary search, but it is not guaranteed. The
value of the `ReputationRootHash` and `NReputationLeaves` at this key
are stored in the contract managing the dispute resolution. Again, if
one party does not respond in time, they are assumed to be incorrect.

### 4. Deciding which submission performed the correct calculation {#deciding-which-submission-performed-the-correct-calculation .unnumbered}

In most cases, only one of the two submissions will be able to perform
the transaction corresponding to this step. There are several types of
calculation and checks that might need to take place, depending on which
transition the two submissions first disagree on, and the values of
`ReputationRootHash` and `NReputationLeaves` they placed in their
Justification Trees. All of the following must be performed on chain to
verify the calculation under dispute.

-   **Check the key** As part of the Merkle proofs submitted (see the
    next step), the `key` of the reputation under dispute is submitted.
    This is a concatenation of the colony address the reputation is in,
    the skill the reputation is in, and the account address holding the
    reputation (which is possibly the zero address if the total
    reputation in the colony is under dispute). Based on the value of
    $i$, which has already been established during the binary search,
    and the known canonical ordering of reputation updates, the contract
    is able to check these values. In the case where the update under
    dispute is due to a log entry (as opposed to normal decay), the
    index of the log entry under dispute is supplied by the user and
    verified on-chain, to avoid iteration over the unbounded log.

-   **Check the claimed before and after values** The values of the
    reputation at `key` in $\mathcal{RH}_{i}$ and $\mathcal{RH}_{i+1}$
    for the submission in question are proved via Merkle proof. If it is
    claimed an existing reputation is being updated, then the proofs'
    siblings and branchmask are required to be the same to guarantee no
    other reputations have been changed. If a new reputation is claimed
    to be being added (indicated by
    $\mathcal{L}_{i+1} - \mathcal{L}_i = 1$), the proof for the
    reputation in $\mathcal{RH}_i$ is not required as the reputation
    should not be in the tree, but an additional check will be performed
    later to confirm this.

-   **Perform the calculation** This has two elements. The first is to
    check that the `nonce` for the reputation has not changed in the
    leaf if an existing leaf is being updated. If a new leaf is being
    added, the value of the `nonce` is checked to be one larger than the
    $\mathcal{L}_{i}$ that they have provided (as each `nonce` is given
    in sequence). The second is to check that the value of the
    reputation is correct. It can be a decay, or an update due to an
    entry in the log, the potential consequences of which are described
    in section
    [5.6](#sec:calculating-reputation-updates){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:calculating-reputation-updates"}.

-   **Additional checks** Depending on the type of update being
    disputed, additional checks may be required

    1.  Any additional reputation values needed for the calculation are
        proved to be in $\mathcal{RH}_{i}$ (which both parties agree on
        the value of) as required via Merkle proof. The canonical
        ordering of reputation updates ensures that any values required
        for the calculation under dispute are present in
        $\mathcal{RH}_{i}$ and have not yet been altered by the log
        entry under consideration.

    2.  Similarly, if a new leaf is added, a Merkle proof for the
        reputation in $\mathcal{RH}_{i}$ with the previous `nonce` is
        checked to confirm the `nonce` assigned to the new node is
        plausible.

    3.  If during the calculation, the user claims that a reputation
        they need for a calculation does not exist in
        $\mathcal{RH}_{i}$, and so they will use a value of 0, they must
        prove it does not exist in the tree.[^25]

    4.  If a new reputation value is being added to the tree, we also
        prove that the reputation that it ends up closest to in the tree
        exists in $\mathcal{RH}_{i}$. We are therefore able to deduce
        what the proof for that reputation in $\mathcal{RH}_{i+1}$
        should be if only the new leaf is added. By checking this Merkle
        proof is valid, we ensure no other changes have been made to the
        reputation tree.

It is possible that both submissions will successfully submit the
transaction that validates their submissions as described here. This can
happen when a new leaf is being added, and the submissions have
disagreed over the `nonce` the reputation should be given. Whichever has
successfully awarded the highest `nonce` is deemed the correct
submission. If neither party responds to a particular stage in this
process in time, both are eliminated from consideration.

If the 1-hour mining cycle window has not elapsed by the time only one
submission remains, the next window only opens when the current window
has elapsed. If the 1-hour window has elapsed by the time the dispute
process has finished, the next submission window opens immediately.

## Calculating reputation updates {#sec:calculating-reputation-updates}

### Keeping track of reputation changes

Fundamentally, there are two types of reputation update that occur:

-   Decay of existing reputation.

-   Addition or removal of reputation as a reward or punishment.

When a user earns reputation in a skill or domain, they also earn
reputation in all parent domains, which corresponds to
$2\times\left(\texttt{n\_parents}+1\right)$ reputation updates.
Alternately, when a user loses reputation, they also lose reputation in
all parents and all children representing a total number of updates of
$2\times\left(\texttt{n\_parents} + \texttt{n\_children} + 1\right)$.
The factors of two here come from also updating the relevant colony-wide
totals.

In Section
[2.5.3](#subsec:on-chain-representation-of-skills){reference-type="ref"
reference="subsec:on-chain-representation-of-skills"}, we asserted we
store `n_parents` and `n_children` for all skills and domains. It is
only by having access to the number of parents and children for each
reputation and the reputation update log recording how many reputations
have been updated already in this update cycle (via `n_updates`) that
the resolution protocol is able to perform the binary search of the
justification trees submitted by the disagreeing users. At the start of
the challenge protocol, the contract can look up the last entry in the
update table for the cycle under consideration, and work out how many
updates have occurred in this cycle based on the number of updates prior
and the number of parent and child reputations. After verifying that
both submitted justification trees contain this exact number of leaves
it can proceed to the binary search.

If the discrepant transition is a decay transition they must also supply
a Merkle proof that the starting value assumed for the user corresponds
to the value that user had at the end of the last update cycle. A decay
transition is identified by the Merkle path corresponding to an index in
the justification tree smaller than the number of leaves in the
reputation tree at the end of the last successful update.

### Earning reputation for the first time {#sec:earning-rep-for-first-time}

When a user earns reputation in a new skill, at least one new leaf is
added to the tree --- if they have not earned reputation before in some
of the parents, then they will also cause further new leaves to be
added. Additional new leaves will be added if they are the first user in
a colony to earn those particular skills, making the total reputation
for that skill in the colony non-zero. During a dispute, when the user
proves that they have included the update in the tree, it is not
possible to check (efficiently) on-chain that they should not have added
it to an existing leaf instead. However, because during the resolution
process we are always comparing two submissions against each other, one
of two things will be true:[^26]

-   Both submissions added a new leaf to the tree. If there was a
    discrepancy, then it is in the maths conducted on this leaf, not the
    addition of the leaf itself. The maths can be checked on-chain to
    establish which result is correct.

-   One submission adds the new reputation to an existing leaf (the
    correctness of which can be checked on-chain easily). In this case,
    the user who added the leaf incorrectly is wrong.

### Transfers of reputation between accounts {#sec:reptransfer}

The most important quality of reputation that distinguishes it from a
token is that it is tied to an account and cannot be transferred.
However, in the event of disputes (Section
[3.4](#sec:motions-and-disputes){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:motions-and-disputes"}) it can happen that one party to a
dispute loses reputation while the other gains. This process has to be
modelled as a 'reputation transfer' to ensure that reputation is never
created in this process (i.e. the reputation lost by the loser is at
least as much as the reputation gained by the winner).

If an entry in the reputation update log indicates that a dispute has
occurred and been resolved, then there will be a number of transfers of
reputation between users represented by a single entry. Each such
transfer will have to accommodate the updates of all the parents of the
reputation being gained by one user, and updates of all the parents and
children of the reputation being lost by the other. However, we have to
ensure that the user who is losing reputation still has the reputation
to lose if another user is gaining it.

To achieve this, all the transactions that correspond to updating the
reputations of the user gaining the reputation are done first. In the
event such a transaction must be proved to be correct in the resolution
protocol, the users can provide a proof of the losing user's reputation,
prior to them losing it in this event in update cycle, and this can be
compared to the amount of reputation intended to be gained. Whichever is
smaller is used as the amount of reputation the user is gaining during
the calculations.

Then, when calculating the reputation deduction to be applied to the
losing user, the reputation that was used as the voting weight should be
done last i.e. all the children and parents should be considered first,
as it is the amount of the reputation that was eligible to vote that
will determine the fraction lost of each of the child reputations.

For further details about reputation transfers and disputes, see
Appendix [7.1](#appendix:rep-transfer){reference-type="ref"
reference="appendix:rep-transfer"}.

### The reputation decay calculation {#sec:repdecay}

The reputation decay process was described above as being continuous. In
practise, it will decay by a small, discrete amount during each
reputation update cycle following an exponential decay. However, such a
calculation is not possible to do accurately on-chain during the
resolution protocol, so we must use an approximation. The details of the
approximation we use, and a proof that this approximation is accurate
and will not affect the running of (active) colonies can be found in
Appendix [7.2](#appendix:rep-decay){reference-type="ref"
reference="appendix:rep-decay"}.

## Denial of service attacks {#sec:mining-possible-attacks}

In the event of multiple submissions, finding the correct one takes time
--- the timeout $t$ for the challenge-response must be reasonable to
allow the transaction defending a submission to propagate and be mined.
A denial-of-service attack is therefore possible, whereby an attacker
makes many false submissions. However, if these false submissions were
random hashes, unable to be defended, then none would be defended
correctly within the first timeout window, and the attack would quickly
end. For pairings where neither submission is defended, any user can
remove both submissions from consideration and claim the tokens that
were staked to allow submission.

The denial of service attack (to delay a proper reputation update) can
only be sustained when the false submissions are incorrect only in some
leaves, and the majority of the justification tree is correct. In this
scenario, the attacker successfully defends each of their submissions
for as long as possible to delay the resolution of the reputation mining
protocol as much as possible.

Any such attack is capped by the first round of pairings of submissions
against each other. Even if the attacker made millions of submissions,
only a finite number of those would be able to be successfully defended
due to the block size --- currently, no more than 4500 submissions would
be able to be defended, even if the attacker used up all block space
during the timeout.[^27] With only 4500 submissions able to make it to
the second round, the length of time the DoS attack would be sustained
for is given by

$$t \times \left\lceil\log_2\left(4500\right)\right\rceil\times \left\lceil\log_2\left(N_{\rm updates}\right)\right\rceil$$

where $N_{\rm updates}$ is the number of reputation updates that have
been made in this update cycle. To arrive at this figure, we know there
will need to be $\left\lceil\log_2\left(4500\right)\right\rceil$ rounds
of comparison between submissions to eliminate all but one. Each round
will require $\left\lceil\log_2\left(N_{\rm updates}\right)\right\rceil$
interrogations of the justification tree to establish where the two
submissions being compared differ. Finally, each interrogation can take
up to $t$ before it is considered to have timed out and one or both of
the submissions is deemed invalid. The product of these three factors
tells us how long this reputation update can be delayed by an attacker.

Long term, $N_{\rm updates}$ will be dominated by the decay transactions
rather than by any updates that have occurred since the last reputation
state was established. Even if the Colony Network were wildly
successful, with 100000 colonies, each with 1000 users that had earned
some reputation in 1000 different skills in each of the structural and
skill hierarchies, and using 5 minutes as the value of $t$, the delay to
the reputation updates would only be around $36$ hours. Recent
congestion on the Ethereum network has shown that we will need to be
able to accommodate situations where block space is at a premium; the
reputation mining client will need to recognise when this is occurring,
and send transactions with higher gas prices as appropriate in order to
meet the timeout deadline.

There would be little effect on the rest of the Colony Network in this
time. Users would still be able to exercise their reputation from the
previous reputation update, and continue to influence decisions with
that reputation. Indeed, this shows what perhaps the main motivation for
such an attack would be --- if a user knew that they had been 'caught'
behaving badly, and was due to lose all their reputation, they might try
such an attack to eke out the last bits of influence they possibly
could. However, decisions in the Colony network do not resolve quickly,
and in a well-developed colony we would not expect any one person to
have a large amount of reputation when compared to the rest of the
colony. It therefore seems unlikely any one user would be able to unduly
influence decisions significantly while conducting such an attack.

Assuming this attack continued, then the reputation mining protocol
would effectively only update every 36 hours. Users staking would become
more susceptible to variance in terms of the rewards, but otherwise
little would change in the day-to-day functioning of any individual
colony.

However, the attacker would lose *all* the Colony Network TokenÂ that
they had staked (which would be around 4500 times the expected minimum
stake) in order to perform the attack, and so would have to buy more to
attack again making this attack exceedingly expensive.

Note: There is an edge case to consider in which the attacker is sending
enough defending transactions to completely fill the blocks. In such a
case however we assume that the defence of the legitimate state is
always successfully included in block, as a one-off increase in gas
costs will always be worthwhile to ensure the legitimate state is
defended. Between now and the deployment of the Colony Protocol, we will
carefully observe the Ethereum network to gather empirical data about
the cost and practicability of such an attack and will adjust the
timeout parameter $t$ accordingly. Longer timeout periods make this
attack exceedingly difficult and expensive, but would also slow down the
resolution protocol.

## Costs and rewards of mining {#subsec:mining-costs-and-rewards}

In order to be involved in the reputation mining process, Colony Network
Token holdersÂ must stake their tokens with the Colony Network Contract.
This allows them to submit a reputation hash as part of the reputation
mining process described above.

If they submit a new hash, this is recorded and they are noted as the
first account to submit that hash. If they submit a hash that has
already been submitted, they are appended to a list of users that have
submitted that hash. The system allows for a maximum of 12 miners to be
added to the list in each round. The same miner is allowed to appear on
the list multiple times, but using different values of $N$ in the
inequality
[\[eq:mining-difficulty\]](#eq:mining-difficulty){reference-type="eqref"
reference="eq:mining-difficulty"} on page .

If a hash is found to be incorrect, all those who submitted it lose some
of their stake. If a hash is deemed correct, however, the miners who
submitted it gain Colony Network TokensÂ and reputation.

The total amount of reputation earned by miners is not fixed, but varies
along with activity in the Metacolony. The system tries to ensure that
on average, 25% of MetacolonyÂ reputation comes from mining.

Suppose that the reputation earned in the MetacolonyÂ every hour due to
all activity (mining included) is constant at $h$, then eventually the
colony will reach a steady state in which the decay of reputation is
balanced out precisely by the newly earned reputation and
$$R_{tot} \left( 1 - e^{-k} \right) = h$$ where $k$ is the decay
constant used in each update period (see Appendix
[7.2](#appendix:rep-decay){reference-type="ref"
reference="appendix:rep-decay"}) and $R_{tot}$ is the total reputation
in the Metacolony. If one quarter of all reputation is to come from
mining, then the hourly mining reward $M$ in this situation should be
given by $$\label{eq:mining-reward}
 M = \frac{h}{4} = \frac{R_{tot} \left( 1 - e^{-k} \right)}{4}.$$

The *actual* mining rewards are calculated based on the above model and
we *define* the total reputation to be earned by miners in a given hour
to be given by equation
[\[eq:mining-reward\]](#eq:mining-reward){reference-type="eqref"
reference="eq:mining-reward"}.

Miners who make a submission in a given reputation update cycle are
entitled to a share of this reward. When a miner makes their submission,
their weighting for that submission is calculated and recorded, and this
is added to the total weights of all submitters for this hash so far.
The $n^{th}$ submitter has a weight of $$\label{eq:miner-weighting}
 w_n = \left(1 - \exp\left(\frac{-t_n}{T}\right)\right) \times \left( 1 - \frac{n-1}{N} \right)$$
where $t_n$ is a number of seconds that the $n^{th}$ miner has staked
their tokens for and $T$ and $N$ are normalising constants. $T$ is set
to a number of seconds representing 90Â days, and $N$ is set to twice the
length of the list of submitters --- in our case $N=24$.

The first factor in equation
[\[eq:miner-weighting\]](#eq:miner-weighting){reference-type="eqref"
reference="eq:miner-weighting"} encourages users to stake their tokens
for long periods of time when they register as miners. When locking
tokens for $T$ seconds, this first factor grows to 0.63, when locking
for $2T$ it grows to 0.86, and the factor approaches 1 as the locking
time approaches infinity. The second factor in equation
[\[eq:miner-weighting\]](#eq:miner-weighting){reference-type="eqref"
reference="eq:miner-weighting"} encourages miners to submit the hash as
soon as possible, with this factor becoming smaller the later users
submit; the first submission will have twice the weight of the last
submission, all other factors being equal.

Once the submission window has expired, and either there was only one
submitted hash, or all but one submitted hash has been proved to be
wrong, any user can make a transaction to make this submitted hash the
canonical reputation state used by the network until the end of the next
update cycle. This transaction mints and transfers the CLNY reward to
the miners, as well as adds reputation changes for the miners to the
start of the reputation change log, where they will be included in the
next update cycle.

The reward earned by each miner on the list is given by
$$\label{eq:miner-payout}
 m_n = M \frac{w_n}{W} \quad \textnormal{where} \quad W = \sum_{n=1}^{12} w_n$$
i.e. the mining reward $M$ is divided among the miners according to
their relative weighting.

## Emergency shutdown {#sec:big-red-button}

Section
[\[sec:escape-hatches\]](#sec:escape-hatches){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:escape-hatches"} described a transaction from a
whitelisted account can put a colony into 'recovery mode' during which
the state can be edited, the effects of bugs can be corrected and
upgrades can be made. Similarly, the reputation mining process will also
have an emergency stop-and-repair mechanism (to begin with). This will
allow the whitelisted accountes to revert the reputation root hash to a
previous version and halt all updates to the reputation state until the
issues have been resolved (which will likely involve a contract
upgrade). The colonies will be able to continue operations as usual
using the reputations of the last valid state, which will be temporarily
frozen and not decay.

# Conclusion {#sec:conclusion}

We have described and defined the Colony Protocol --- an organisational
operating system built on Ethereum. It provides a general purpose
framework for the creation, management, and operation of decentralised
organisations of various kinds.

The specification contained herein represents our current best
description of the Colony Protocol. It is however, a working document,
and it should be expected that the final specification will differ
substantively, both as a consequence of the rapidly changing
technological landscape, and the refinement of our understanding of the
requirements of decentralised organisation through iterative cycles of
development and user testing.

## Acknowledgments {#acknowledgments .unnumbered}

The authors would like to thank the following people for their comments,
suggestions, and other contributions: Alexei Akhounov, Alex Amsel, and
Sebastian Klier.
